 James Webb Space Telescope - NASA Science Explore Search News & Events News & Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines NASA+ Search Suggested Searches ISS Roman Webb Quesst Moon Base View All Topics A-Z Home Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA Español News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Highlights 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Next Class of Flight Directors article 4 days ago 4 min read NASA Adds New Science Investigations for Moon Base article 6 days ago 3 min read What’s Up: October 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 5 days ago Back Missions Search All NASA Missions A to Z List of Missions Upcoming Launches and Landings Spaceships and Rockets Communicating with Missions Artemis James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope International Space Station OSIRIS-REx Humans in Space Why Go to Space Astronauts Commercial Space Destinations Spaceships and Rockets Living in Space Earth Explore Earth Science Climate Change Earth, Our Planet Earth Science in Action Earth Multimedia Earth Data Earth Science Researchers The Solar System The Sun Mercury Venus Earth The Moon Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto & Dwarf Planets Asteroids, Comets & Meteors The Kuiper Belt The Oort Cloud Skywatching The Universe Exoplanets The Search for Life in the Universe Stars Galaxies Black Holes The Big Bang Dark Matter Dark Energy Science Earth Science Planetary Science Astrophysics & Space Science The Sun & Heliophysics Biological & Physical Sciences Lunar Science Citizen Science Astromaterials Aeronautics Research Human Space Travel Research Aeronautics Science in the Air NASA Aircraft Flight Innovation Supersonic Flight Air Traffic Solutions Green Aviation Tech Drones & You Technology Technology Transfer & Spinoffs Space Travel Technology Technology Living in Space Manufacturing and Materials Robotics Science Instruments Computing Learning Resources For Kids and Students For Educators For Colleges and Universities For Professionals Science for Everyone Requests for Exhibits, Artifacts, or Speakers STEM Engagement at NASA About NASA NASA's Impacts Centers and Facilities Directorates Organizations People of NASA Careers Internships Our History Doing Business with NASA Get Involved Contact NASA en Español Ciencia Aeronáutica Ciencias Terrestres Sistema Solar Universo News & Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines Highlights 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago 6 min read NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA’s X-59 Completes Record Six Flights in One Week article 4 days ago Highlights 2 min read Help NASA Find Practical Ways to Monitor Astronaut Body Temperature in Low Earth Orbit article 6 days ago 3 min read NASA Opens 2027 Human Lander Challenge for Lunar Communications article 7 days ago 3 min read Researchers: Help NASA Prevent Blood Clot Formation in Space article 2 weeks ago Highlights 2 min read October 2026 Satellite Puzzler article 2 hours ago 4 min read The Beaver Brown Waters of Rupert Bay article 17 hours ago 3 min read Moon-Like Madagascar article 2 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn article 5 hours ago 2 min read 10 Things: Movie Night article 5 days ago 3 min read What’s Up: October 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 5 days ago Highlights 5 min read NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets article 8 hours ago 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago 6 min read NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions article 5 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn article 5 hours ago 5 min read NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets article 8 hours ago 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago Highlights 2 min read NASA Model Wing Lights Up During First Pressure Sensitive Paint Tests article 4 days ago 2 min read Dr. Natasha Schatzman Receives Vertical Flight Society (VFS) Award article 5 days ago 10 min read 2026-2027 DWU: Middle School Design Challenge article 2 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read Rains Swamp the Gandak River article 5 days ago 1 min read Space Reactors Division article 5 days ago 4 min read Powerful Storms Continue to Prowl the Pacific article 7 days ago Highlights 8 min read NASA Selects Projects to Engage Communities Across the US with NASA Science article 4 days ago 3 min read TechRise (for 6–12 graders) article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Second Season of ORBIT Student Challenge article 1 week ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Testing Aims at Supercooled Large Droplet Aviation Safety article 1 day ago 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Next Class of Flight Directors article 4 days ago 2 min read Help Overlap Zoo Reveal Cosmic Dust article 6 days ago Highlights 11 min read La NASA anuncia la cobertura de la misión lunar Artemis II article 6 months ago 15 min read Agenda diaria de la misión a la Luna de Artemis II de la NASA article 7 months ago 6 min read La NASA refuerza Artemis: añade una misión y perfecciona su arquitectura general article 7 months ago Explore Webb … Missions James Webb Space Telescope Webb News Latest News Latest Images Webb's Blog Awards X (offsite - login reqd) Instagram (offsite - login reqd) Facebook (offsite- login reqd) Youtube (offsite) Overview About Who is James Webb? Fact Sheet Impacts+Benefits FAQ Webb Timeline Science Overview and Goals Early Universe Galaxies Over Time Star Lifecycle Other Worlds Science/Engineering Explainers Observatory Overview Launch Deployment Orbit Mirrors Sunshield Instruments & ISIM Module Instrument: NIRCam Instrument: MIRI Instrument: NIRSpec Instrument: FGS/NIRISS Optical Telescope Element Backplane Spacecraft Bus Webb vs Hubble -> Multimedia About Webb Images Images Videos Products & Activities Podcasts Webb Image Sonifications What is Webb Observing? 3d Webb in 3d Solar System Webb's First Images Team International Team People Of Webb More For the Media For Scientists For Educators For Fun/Learning James Webb Space Telescope Webb is the premier observatory of the next decade, serving thousands of astronomers worldwide. It studies every phase in the history of our Universe. Active Mission Featured Content Latest News Latest Images Webb studies every phase in the history of our Universe, ranging from the first luminous glows after the Big Bang, to the formation of solar systems capable of supporting life on planets like Earth, to the evolution of our own Solar System. Webb launched on Dec. 25th 2021. It does not orbit around the Earth like the Hubble Space Telescope, it orbits the Sun 1.5 million kilometers (1 million miles) away from the Earth at what is called the second Lagrange point or L2. Mission Type Astrophysics Partners NASA/ESA/CSA Launch Dec 25, 2021 Arrival at L2 Jan 24, 2022 Key Facts Fact Sheet Premiere Telescope of Next Decade extending the tantalizing discoveries of the Hubble Space Telescope. Folding Design So big it has to fold origami-style to fit in the rocket and will unfold like a “Transformer” in space. 1.5 Million km Webb orbits the Sun 1.5 million kilometers from the Earth. (Hubble orbits 560 kilometers above the Earth.) SPF 1 Million Webb has a 5-layer sunshield that protects the telescope from the infrared radiation of the Sun, Earth, and Moon; like having sun protection of SPF 1 million. Unprecedented Sensitivity iIt will peer back in time over 13.5 billion years to see the first galaxies born after the Big Bang.in the ISS. Featured Image NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope has revealed many protostars and stars within the glowing gases of NGC 7129. Hot, atomic hydrogen gas is shown here in the golden region, while cooler, molecular hydrogen gas, shocked by embedded protostars, is represented in red. Image: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI; Image Processing: Alyssa Pagan (STScI) More Webb Images Featured Story NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets A cauldron of cosmic creation is being revealed in a new image from NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope. Webb has… Read the Story Latest News The feed below is a mix of Webb Science Releases and associated images/videos, Webb Science Blogs, Webb press releases and articles tagged with "James Webb Space Telescope" . To filter out everything except the Webb Science Releases (or Science Blogs) - simply select that filter check box. Webb Science Releases, images, videos and Webb's Science Blogs can also be filtered by Webb's four primary science themes . Filter, Search and Sort Notes: Initial filtered results displayed below show articles that match all of the filters listed for all dates. Once one or more article type filters checked (Images, Science Blogs, Science Releases, Videos), only articles that match the checked filters (logical ORd) are displayed within the date range if selected. When a Webb-Theme is selected, that filters a subset of the article types selected. The "Search Latest Content" box searches for the terms entered within the subset of filtered articles. You can also sort the results by date in descending (newest first) or ascending (oldest first). Filters James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) Webb-Images Webb-Science-Blogs Webb: Science Release Webb Videos Webb-Theme: Early Universe Webb-Theme: Galaxies Over Time Webb-Theme: Star Lifecycle Webb-Theme: Other Worlds Date Range Start: End: Clear Filters Search Search Sort: Publish date Title Publish date Last modified date Relevance Order: Descending Ascending Descending NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets A cauldron of cosmic creation is being revealed in a new image from NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope. Webb has… Oct 6, 2026 Article NGC 7129 (NIRCam Image) NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope has revealed many protostars and stars within the glowing gases of NGC 7129. Hot, atomic… Oct 6, 2026 Image NGC 7129 Side-by-Side (Spitzer and Webb Image) NASA’s retired Spitzer Space Telescope observed the gas and dust within NGC 7129; however, NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope’s improved… Oct 6, 2026 Image NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions In the early history of our solar system, scientists theorize that a Mars-sized object called Theia smashed into the infant… Oct 1, 2026 Article Extreme Debris Disk (Artist’s Concept) The types of collisions within young stellar systems known as extreme debris disks are relevant to scientists’ understanding of our… Oct 1, 2026 Image Composition of Extreme Debris Disks Across Time By investigating the compositions of extreme debris disks, scientists inferred that silica-rich disks are produced by high-energy impacts of Mars-sized… Oct 1, 2026 Image Centaurus A Poster Download and print a mini poster featuring an image of the galaxy Centaurus A captured in 2026 by NASA's James… Sep 25, 2026 Image NASA’s Webb Reveals Dynamic Panorama of Star Formation This starry view of the nearby star-forming region IC 348 is one of the largest images released to date from… Sep 15, 2026 Article IC 348 (NIRCam Image) NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope recently observed IC 348, a star-forming region just 1,000 light-years away from Earth. Webb’s sharp… Sep 15, 2026 Image IC 348 Collage This collage features a collection of insets from NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope’s image of star-forming region IC 348: embedded… Sep 15, 2026 Image NASA’s Hubble, Webb Find Far-out Solar System Objects ‘Remember’ Past For the first time, scientists used the joint power of NASA’s Hubble and James Webb Space Telescopes to study some… Sep 8, 2026 Article Trans-Neptunian Object Illustration This artist’s concept depicts a Trans-Neptunian Object, a small, faint, icy body orbiting the Sun beyond the orbit of Neptune.… Sep 8, 2026 Image 1 2 3 … 154 Next Webb's Blog This feed only contains articles from Webb's Blog which offers an insider's point of view covering a variety of topics. The feed below supports a deeper dive into Webb's Blog which contains early release science (not yet peer reviewed) as well as blogs on Webb Mission Operations and Webb Engineering posts - you can also filter Webb Science Blogs by Webb's four primary science themes . Filters James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) Webb-Engineering Webb-Science-Blogs Webb-Mission-Operations Webb-Theme: Early Universe Webb-Theme: Galaxies Over Time Webb-Theme: Star Lifecycle Webb-Theme: Other Worlds Date Range Start: End: Clear Filters Search Search Sort: Publish date Title Publish date Last modified date Relevance Order: Descending Ascending Descending Webb Unravels Small Cosmic Details With Interferometry Observing Mode One of the most recognizable features of NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope is its large, segmented, gold-coated mirror, which delivers… Aug 4, 2026 Blog NASA’s Webb Detects Methane on Interstellar Comet 3I/ATLAS NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope has collected its first mid-infrared chemical fingerprint of an interstellar object during a recent revisit… Jun 1, 2026 Blog How NASA’s Webb Helped Rule Out Asteroid’s Chance of 2032 Lunar Impact Editor’s Note: This post highlights data from Webb science in progress, which has not yet been through the peer-review process.… Mar 6, 2026 Blog New NASA Asteroid Observations Eliminate Chance of 2032 Lunar Impact Using data from NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope observations collected on Feb. 18 and 26, experts from NASA’s Center for… Mar 5, 2026 Blog NASA’s Webb Space Telescope Observes Interstellar Comet NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope observed interstellar comet 3I/ATLAS Aug. 6, with its Near-Infrared Spectrograph instrument. The research team has… Aug 25, 2025 Blog New Moon Discovered Orbiting Uranus Using NASA’s Webb Telescope Editor’s Note: This post highlights data from Webb science in progress, which has not yet been through the peer-review process.… Aug 19, 2025 Blog NASA’s Webb Finds Possible ‘Direct Collapse’ Black Hole Editor’s Note: This post highlights a combination of peer-reviewed results and data from Webb science in progress, which has not… Jul 15, 2025 Blog NASA’s Webb Observations Update Asteroid 2024 YR4’s Lunar Impact Odds While asteroid 2024 YR4 is currently too distant to detect with telescopes from Earth, NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope collected one… Jun 5, 2025 Blog How NASA’s Webb Telescope Supports Our Search for Life Beyond Earth This artist’s concept shows what exoplanet K2-18 b could look like based on science data. K2-18 b, an exoplanet 8.6… Apr 18, 2025 Blog NASA’s Webb Finds Asteroid 2024 YR4 Is Building-Sized Editor’s Note: This post highlights data from Webb science in progress, which has not yet been through the peer-review process. These… Apr 2, 2025 Blog NASA’s Webb Reveals the Ancient Surfaces of Trans-Neptunian Objects Trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) are icy bodies ranging in size from Pluto and Eris (dwarf planets with diameters of about 1,500… Feb 12, 2025 Blog Monitoring Webb’s Mirrors for Optimal Optics NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope is the largest and most powerful telescope ever launched to space. Its mirror is composed… Nov 8, 2024 Blog 1 2 3 … 14 Next Latest 2026 Images The image below is a SLIDESHOW. Hover over the image to see the image title and controls. Click the image to go to a detail page with more info and the ability to download the image at various resolutions (click the downward arrow icon in lower right corner). View Slideshow as Thumbnail Gallery (new tab) More Webb Images Science Images By Year Webb Science image slideshows by year. First Images Webb's first science images released in July of 2022 just after commissioning was completed. More Webb Images Images from Webb's testing and commissioning, road to launch from the US to ESA's launch facility in French Guiana, Webb's launch, Webb's development and more. About Webb Images The where, why and how of Webb images. Search Webb Science Images Search and filter Webb science images and image products using keywords, date ranges, astronomoical objects and more. Webb Observation tracking TOOL What is Webb Observing? See current, upcoming and recent past observations scientists are making with the Webb Space Telescope. View details about each observation's science focus areas, the instruments used and more. View the Tool About The Webb Mission Webb is the premier observatory of the next decade, serving thousands of astronomers worldwide. It studies every phase in the history of our Universe, ranging from the first luminous glows after the Big Bang, to the formation of solar systems capable of supporting life on planets like Earth, to the evolution of our own Solar System. Learn More This is a photo of one of the James Webb Space Telescope's primary mirror segments coated with gold by Quantum Coating Incorporated. It's NOT a flight segment, it's the engineering design unit. The photo was taken at BATC by Drew Noel. Photo by Drew Noel About Webb's Science Goals The James Webb Space Telescope is a giant leap forward in our quest to understand the Universe and our origins. Webb is examining every phase of cosmic history: from the first luminous glows after the Big Bang to the formation of galaxies, stars, and planets to the evolution of our own solar system. Learn about the 4 main science themes for Webb. Learn More NASA’s Webb Captures Dying Star’s Final ‘Performance’ in Fine Detail NASA, ESA, CSA, and STScI About The Spacecraft The Webb Space Telescope is the largest, most powerful and most complex telescope ever launched into space . It's design and development history stretches back before the Hubble Space Telescope was launched. Learn about the design, the major components and subsystems of Webb and see Webb in 3d in a 3d Solar System. Learn More About The International Webb Team Webb is for the world, and from the world. Thousands of skilled scientists, engineers and technicians from 14 countries (and more than 29 U.S. states, and Washington, D.C.) contributed to the design, build, test, integration, launch, commissioning and operations of Webb. It is a joint NASA/ESA/CSA mission. Assembly and testing of the mirror and instruments occurred at NASA Goddard (GSFC). Learn More A full disk view of the earth from GOES 16, GOES East on the vernal Equinox. NOAA / NASA Do NASA Science with Galaxy Zoo! Join NASA researchers and help discover the secrets of the universe. NASA invites people of all ages and backgrounds to participate in authentic NASA research via "citizen science" or "participatory science" projects, where volunteers and amateurs have helped make thousands of important scientific discoveries! As a part of the Galaxy Zoo project, you can help classify the latest images of galaxies from NASA's Webb telescope. Learn how you can get involved Keep Exploring Discover More Topics From NASA Missions Humans in Space Climate Change Solar System National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery. About NASA's Mission Join Us Home News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA NASA en Español Follow NASA More NASA Social Accounts NASA Newsletters Sitemap For Media Privacy Policy FOIA No FEAR Act Office of the IG Budget & Annual Reports Agency Financial Reports Contact NASA Accessibility Page Last Updated: Oct 06, 2026 Page Editor: Martin McCoy Responsible NASA Official for Science: Dana Bolles Δ Did you find what you were looking for? (Required) Yes No Partly What were you looking for? (Required) What were you hoping to accomplish by visiting our website? (Required) Submit × 