 Mars Science Laboratory: Curiosity Rover - NASA Science Explore Search News & Events News & Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines NASA+ Search Suggested Searches ISS Roman Webb Quesst Moon Base View All Topics A-Z Home Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA Español News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Highlights 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Next Class of Flight Directors article 4 days ago 4 min read NASA Adds New Science Investigations for Moon Base article 6 days ago 3 min read What’s Up: October 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 5 days ago Back Missions Search All NASA Missions A to Z List of Missions Upcoming Launches and Landings Spaceships and Rockets Communicating with Missions Artemis James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope International Space Station OSIRIS-REx Humans in Space Why Go to Space Astronauts Commercial Space Destinations Spaceships and Rockets Living in Space Earth Explore Earth Science Climate Change Earth, Our Planet Earth Science in Action Earth Multimedia Earth Data Earth Science Researchers The Solar System The Sun Mercury Venus Earth The Moon Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto & Dwarf Planets Asteroids, Comets & Meteors The Kuiper Belt The Oort Cloud Skywatching The Universe Exoplanets The Search for Life in the Universe Stars Galaxies Black Holes The Big Bang Dark Matter Dark Energy Science Earth Science Planetary Science Astrophysics & Space Science The Sun & Heliophysics Biological & Physical Sciences Lunar Science Citizen Science Astromaterials Aeronautics Research Human Space Travel Research Aeronautics Science in the Air NASA Aircraft Flight Innovation Supersonic Flight Air Traffic Solutions Green Aviation Tech Drones & You Technology Technology Transfer & Spinoffs Space Travel Technology Technology Living in Space Manufacturing and Materials Robotics Science Instruments Computing Learning Resources For Kids and Students For Educators For Colleges and Universities For Professionals Science for Everyone Requests for Exhibits, Artifacts, or Speakers STEM Engagement at NASA About NASA NASA's Impacts Centers and Facilities Directorates Organizations People of NASA Careers Internships Our History Doing Business with NASA Get Involved Contact NASA en Español Ciencia Aeronáutica Ciencias Terrestres Sistema Solar Universo News & Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines Highlights 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago 6 min read NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA’s X-59 Completes Record Six Flights in One Week article 4 days ago Highlights 2 min read Help NASA Find Practical Ways to Monitor Astronaut Body Temperature in Low Earth Orbit article 6 days ago 3 min read NASA Opens 2027 Human Lander Challenge for Lunar Communications article 7 days ago 3 min read Researchers: Help NASA Prevent Blood Clot Formation in Space article 2 weeks ago Highlights 4 min read The Beaver Brown Waters of Rupert Bay article 14 hours ago 3 min read Moon-Like Madagascar article 2 days ago 2 min read Amendment 77: New Opportunity: A.18 Geosphere article 4 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn article 2 hours ago 2 min read 10 Things: Movie Night article 5 days ago 3 min read What’s Up: October 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 5 days ago Highlights 5 min read NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets article 5 hours ago 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago 6 min read NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions article 5 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn article 2 hours ago 5 min read NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets article 5 hours ago 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago Highlights 2 min read NASA Model Wing Lights Up During First Pressure Sensitive Paint Tests article 4 days ago 2 min read Dr. Natasha Schatzman Receives Vertical Flight Society (VFS) Award article 5 days ago 10 min read 2026-2027 DWU: Middle School Design Challenge article 2 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read Rains Swamp the Gandak River article 5 days ago 1 min read Space Reactors Division article 5 days ago 4 min read Powerful Storms Continue to Prowl the Pacific article 7 days ago Highlights 8 min read NASA Selects Projects to Engage Communities Across the US with NASA Science article 4 days ago 3 min read TechRise (for 6–12 graders) article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Second Season of ORBIT Student Challenge article 1 week ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Testing Aims at Supercooled Large Droplet Aviation Safety article 1 day ago 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Next Class of Flight Directors article 4 days ago 2 min read Help Overlap Zoo Reveal Cosmic Dust article 6 days ago Highlights 11 min read La NASA anuncia la cobertura de la misión lunar Artemis II article 6 months ago 15 min read Agenda diaria de la misión a la Luna de Artemis II de la NASA article 7 months ago 6 min read La NASA refuerza Artemis: añade una misión y perfecciona su arquitectura general article 7 months ago Curiosity Navigation … Missions Mars Science Laboratory:... Curiosity Home Mission Overview Where is Curiosity? Mission Updates Science Overview Instruments Highlights Exploration Goals News and Features Multimedia Curiosity Raw Images Images Videos Audio Mosaics More Resources Mars Missions Mars Perseverance Rover Mars Curiosity Rover Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Mars Odyssey More Mars Missions Mars Home Mars Science Laboratory: Curiosity Rover Part of NASA's Mars Science Laboratory mission, at the time of launch Curiosity was the largest and most capable rover ever sent to Mars. Active Mission Science Science Instruments Where is Curiosity? The foundation of NASA's Mars Science Laboratory mission, Curiosity was the largest and most capable rover ever sent to Mars when it launched in 2011. Curiosity set out to answer the question: Did Mars ever have the right environmental conditions to support small life forms called microbes? Early in its mission, Curiosity's scientific tools found chemical and mineral evidence of past habitable environments on Mars. It continues to explore the rock record from a time when Mars could have been home to microbial life. Type Rover Launch / Landing Nov. 26, 2011 / Aug. 6, 2012 Target Mars Objective Determine if Mars was ever able to support microbial life Mars curiosity rover Curiosity Reaches 1-Kilometer Elevation Gain NASA’s Curiosity Mars rover reached the pinnacle — so far — of its 14-year-old mission on Aug. 26, 2026, when it marked an elevation gain of 1 kilometer in its journey from Gale Crater on Mars up the slope of Mount Sharp. Read More About Curiosity's Journey NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS Featured Story NASA’s Curiosity Finds Organic Molecules Never Seen Before on Mars After years of lab work, the results are in: A rock that NASA’s Curiosity Mars rover drilled and analyzed in… Read the Story NASA STUDY ‘Non-Biologic Processes Don’t Fully Explain Mars Organics’ In a new study, researchers say that non-biological sources they considered could not fully account for the abundance of organic compounds in a sample collected on Mars by NASA’s Curiosity rover. A Feb. 4 report in the journal Astrobiology analyzed the discovery — the largest organic compounds found on Mars, hypothesized to possibly be fragments of fatty acids preserved in the ancient mudstone in Gale Crater. Learn More This graphic shows the long-chain organic molecules decane, undecane, and dodecane. These are the largest organic molecules discovered on Mars to date. They were detected in a drilled rock sample called “Cumberland” that was analyzed by the Sample Analysis at Mars lab inside the belly of NASA’s Curiosity rover. The rover, whose selfie is on the right side of the image, has been exploring Gale Crater since 2012. An image of the Cumberland drill hole is faintly visible in the background of the molecule chains. NASA/Dan Gallagher Featured Story NASA’s Curiosity Rover Sees Martian ‘Spiderwebs’ Up Close For about six months, NASA’s Curiosity Mars rover has been exploring a region full of geologic formations called boxwork, low… Read the Story meet curiosity Size About the size of a small SUV — 10 feet long, 9 feet wide and 7 feet tall), not including the arm. Arm reach About 7 feet (2.2 meters) Mass/weight 1,982 lbs (899 kg) in Earth gravity 743 lbs (337 kg) in Mars gravity Features Geology lab, rocker-bogie suspension, rock-vaporizing laser and lots of cameras Unable to render the provided source A 3D model of the Mars Curiosity Rover. NASA Visualization Technology Applications and Development (VTAD) FEATURE IMAGE Curiosity’s 42 Drill Holes NASA's Curiosity Mars rover has collected 42 powderized rock samples with the drill on the end of its robotic arm. This grid shows all 42 holes made by the drill when collecting the samples. View Image Details FEATURE IMAGE Curiosity’s 42 Drill Holes Featured Video Landing Site: Gale Crater Curiosity explores Gale Crater and acquires rock, soil, and air samples for onboard analysis. The car-size rover is about as tall as a basketball player and uses a 7 foot-long arm to place tools close to rocks selected for study. Curiosity's large size allows it to carry an advanced kit of 10 science instruments. It has tools including 17 cameras, a laser to vaporize and study small pinpoint spots of rocks at a distance, and a drill to collect powdered rock samples. It hunts for special rocks that formed in water and/or have signs of organics. The Curiosity rover has taught us a lot about the history of Mars and its potential to support life. Take a tour of its landing site, Gale Crater. Credit NASA/JPL-Caltech Watch Science Curiosity is seeking evidence of organics, the chemical building blocks of life. Raw Images View raw images sent back by Curiosity from its explorations on Mars. Resources Visit the one-stop shop for all Curiosity media. Mission Updates Posts written by self-selected Mars Science Laboratory mission team members, eager to share with the public all that Curiosity is doing. Drag your mouse or move your phone to explore this 360-degree panorama provided by NASA’s Curiosity Mars rover. featured image Curiosity Lights Up ‘Nevado Sajama’ at Night NASA’s Curiosity Mars rover used LED lights on the end of its robotic arm to create this rare nighttime view of the Red Planet’s surface on Dec. 6, 2025, the 4,740th Martian day, or sol, of the rover’s mission. The LED lights are part of the Mars Hand Lens Imager, or MAHLI, a camera on the end of Curiosity’s robotic arm. The image was captured by the Mast Camera, or Mastcam, on the rover’s mast, or “head.” Credits: NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS Learn More About This Image featured image Curiosity Lights Up ‘Nevado Sajama’ at Night News and Features All Curiosity Rover News Article 3 Min Read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn Article 2 Min Read Curiosity Postcard Celebrates Rover’s 5,000th Day on Mars 1 Min Read NASA’s Curiosity Views a Sand-Capped Butte Article 2 Min Read NASA’s Curiosity Discovers a Field of Martian Polygons Article 3 Min Read NASA’s Curiosity Mars Rover Discovers Field of Honeycomb Textures Article Keep Exploring Discover More Topics From NASA Curiosity Science Highlights Mars 2020: Perseverance Rover NASA’s Mars Perseverance rover seeks signs of ancient life and collects samples of rock and regolith for possible Earth return. Mars Exploration Mars is the only planet we know of inhabited entirely by robots. Learn more about the Mars Missions. Mars Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun, and the seventh largest. It’s the only planet we know of inhabited… National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery. About NASA's Mission Join Us Home News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA NASA en Español Follow NASA More NASA Social Accounts NASA Newsletters Sitemap For Media Privacy Policy FOIA No FEAR Act Office of the IG Budget & Annual Reports Agency Financial Reports Contact NASA Accessibility Page Last Updated: Sep 29, 2026 Page Editor: Stephen Carney Responsible NASA Official for Science: Dana Bolles Δ Did you find what you were looking for? (Required) Yes No Partly What were you looking for? (Required) What were you hoping to accomplish by visiting our website? (Required) Submit × 