 History & Culture - Yosemite National Park (U.S. National Park Service) An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Skip to global NPS navigation Skip to this park navigation Skip to the main content Skip to this park information section Skip to the footer section National Park Service Yosemite National Park Search Search This Site All NPS Open Menu Close Menu Explore This Park Explore the National Park Service Exiting nps.gov Cancel Yosemite National Park Info Alerts Maps Calendar Fees Contact Us History & Culture At first glance, Yosemite’s natural wonders are easy to observe. Sights around the park are iconic in the human experience of national parks. Beyond the rocks, plants, and animals, is a story about people in Yosemite written on that very same landscape. It tells a story of different cultures (sometimes working together, sometimes in violent clashes) creating the place we call Yosemite National Park and defining how we experience it. Yosemite’s rich human history tells a story of conflict, dreams, diversity, hardships, adventures, and preservation of one of the first national parks. People Humans have existed on Yosemite’s landscape for thousands of years and have helped shape how we experience Yosemite today. Places Historic buildings and cultural landscapes tell the story of human history. Yosemite: Then and Now Yosemite: Then and Now is to tell the park’s story by matching beautiful and fascinating archival photographs with photos from today. Archeology Archeology is the study of past ways of life through material remains. Learn why it matters. Stories Moments in time that shaped Yosemite’s past. Collections Yosemite’s museum collection contains more than 4 million items from Yosemite - natural and cultural. I have seen persons of emotional temperament stand with tearful eyes, spellbound and dumb with awe, as they got their first view of the Valley from Inspiration Point, overwhelmed in the sudden presence of the unspeakable, stupendous grandeur. —Galen Clark, guardian of the Yosemite Grant Image credit: NPS Historic Photo Collection Last updated: September 8, 2025 Park footer Contact Info Phone: 209/372-0200 Contact Us Tools FAQ Site Index Español Stay Connected This Site All NPS Experience Your America. Download the NPS app to navigate the parks on the go. Accessibility Privacy Policy FOIA Notices Contact Yosemite National Park NPS FAQ No Fear Act Disclaimer Vulnerability Disclosure Policy USA.gov Office of Civil Rights Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov 