 Mars 2020: Perseverance Rover - NASA Science Explore Search News & Events News & Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines NASA+ Search Suggested Searches ISS Roman Webb Quesst Moon Base View All Topics A-Z Home Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA Español News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Highlights 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Next Class of Flight Directors article 4 days ago 4 min read NASA Adds New Science Investigations for Moon Base article 6 days ago 3 min read What’s Up: October 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 5 days ago Back Missions Search All NASA Missions A to Z List of Missions Upcoming Launches and Landings Spaceships and Rockets Communicating with Missions Artemis James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope International Space Station OSIRIS-REx Humans in Space Why Go to Space Astronauts Commercial Space Destinations Spaceships and Rockets Living in Space Earth Explore Earth Science Climate Change Earth, Our Planet Earth Science in Action Earth Multimedia Earth Data Earth Science Researchers The Solar System The Sun Mercury Venus Earth The Moon Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto & Dwarf Planets Asteroids, Comets & Meteors The Kuiper Belt The Oort Cloud Skywatching The Universe Exoplanets The Search for Life in the Universe Stars Galaxies Black Holes The Big Bang Dark Matter Dark Energy Science Earth Science Planetary Science Astrophysics & Space Science The Sun & Heliophysics Biological & Physical Sciences Lunar Science Citizen Science Astromaterials Aeronautics Research Human Space Travel Research Aeronautics Science in the Air NASA Aircraft Flight Innovation Supersonic Flight Air Traffic Solutions Green Aviation Tech Drones & You Technology Technology Transfer & Spinoffs Space Travel Technology Technology Living in Space Manufacturing and Materials Robotics Science Instruments Computing Learning Resources For Kids and Students For Educators For Colleges and Universities For Professionals Science for Everyone Requests for Exhibits, Artifacts, or Speakers STEM Engagement at NASA About NASA NASA's Impacts Centers and Facilities Directorates Organizations People of NASA Careers Internships Our History Doing Business with NASA Get Involved Contact NASA en Español Ciencia Aeronáutica Ciencias Terrestres Sistema Solar Universo News & Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines Highlights 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago 6 min read NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA’s X-59 Completes Record Six Flights in One Week article 4 days ago Highlights 2 min read Help NASA Find Practical Ways to Monitor Astronaut Body Temperature in Low Earth Orbit article 6 days ago 3 min read NASA Opens 2027 Human Lander Challenge for Lunar Communications article 7 days ago 3 min read Researchers: Help NASA Prevent Blood Clot Formation in Space article 2 weeks ago Highlights 2 min read October 2026 Satellite Puzzler article 1 hour ago 4 min read The Beaver Brown Waters of Rupert Bay article 16 hours ago 3 min read Moon-Like Madagascar article 2 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn article 4 hours ago 2 min read 10 Things: Movie Night article 5 days ago 3 min read What’s Up: October 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 5 days ago Highlights 5 min read NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets article 7 hours ago 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago 6 min read NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions article 5 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn article 4 hours ago 5 min read NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets article 7 hours ago 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago Highlights 2 min read NASA Model Wing Lights Up During First Pressure Sensitive Paint Tests article 4 days ago 2 min read Dr. Natasha Schatzman Receives Vertical Flight Society (VFS) Award article 5 days ago 10 min read 2026-2027 DWU: Middle School Design Challenge article 2 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read Rains Swamp the Gandak River article 5 days ago 1 min read Space Reactors Division article 5 days ago 4 min read Powerful Storms Continue to Prowl the Pacific article 7 days ago Highlights 8 min read NASA Selects Projects to Engage Communities Across the US with NASA Science article 4 days ago 3 min read TechRise (for 6–12 graders) article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Second Season of ORBIT Student Challenge article 1 week ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Testing Aims at Supercooled Large Droplet Aviation Safety article 1 day ago 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Next Class of Flight Directors article 4 days ago 2 min read Help Overlap Zoo Reveal Cosmic Dust article 6 days ago Highlights 11 min read La NASA anuncia la cobertura de la misión lunar Artemis II article 6 months ago 15 min read Agenda diaria de la misión a la Luna de Artemis II de la NASA article 7 months ago 6 min read La NASA refuerza Artemis: añade una misión y perfecciona su arquitectura general article 7 months ago Explore This Section Perseverance Home Mission Overview Rover Components Mars Rock Samples Where is Perseverance? Ingenuity Mars Helicopter Mission Updates Science Overview Objectives Instruments Highlights Exploration Goals News and Features Multimedia Perseverance Raw Images Images Videos Audio More Resources Mars Missions Mars Perseverance Rover Mars Curiosity Rover Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Mars Odyssey More Mars Missions Mars Home Mars 2020: Perseverance Rover Five years ago, the most advanced robotic explorer ever sent to the Red Planet landed, “safely on the surface of Mars, ready to begin seeking the signs of past life.” See how far it’s gotten — scientifically and literally — as it rolls into the rest of the decade. Active Mission Where is Perseverance? Mars Rock Samples Science The Mars 2020 Perseverance Rover is searching for signs of ancient microbial life, to advance NASA's quest to explore the past habitability of Mars. The rover is collecting core samples of Martian rock and regolith (broken rock and soil), for potential pickup by a future mission that would bring them to Earth for detailed study. Type Rover Launch / Landing July 30, 2020 / Feb. 18, 2021 Target Jezero Crater, Mars Objective Seek signs of ancient life and collect samples of rock and regolith for possible Earth return Featured Story Old Glory on the Red Planet The United States flag adorns an aluminum plate mounted at the base of the mast, or “head,” of NASA’s Perseverance… Read the Story the search for life Perseverance Discovered Potential Biosignature In the summer of 2024, Perseverance investigated its “most puzzling, complex, and potentially important rock yet,” according to one mission scientist. It showed signs of past water, organic material, and clues suggesting chemical reactions by microbial life. In September 2025, after a rigorous, yearlong peer-review to scrutinize the Mars 2020 team findings, the journal Nature published the validated results: Perseverance’s "Sapphire Canyon" sample from the rock nicknamed “Cheyava Falls” contains potential biosignatures — clues that suggest past life may have been present, but that require more data or further study before any conclusions about the absence or presence of life. Read About the 'Cheyava Falls' Discovery NASA's Perseverance Mars rover took this selfie, made up of 62 individual images, on July 23, 2024. A rock nicknamed Cheyava Falls is to the left of the rover near the center of the image. NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS ...the closest we have ever come to discovering life on Mars… Sean Duffy Then-acting NASA Administrator, on Sept. 10, 2025, about the potential biosignatures in the “Sapphire Canyon” sample, taken from a rock named “Cheyava Falls” Featured Video Mars Rock Samples: The Stories They Could Tell NASA's Mars Perseverance rover is building a unique rock collection, which also includes samples of Mars atmosphere and loose surface material. These samples record the history of the Jezero Crater landing site, and may even preserve signs of ancient life. Learn more about these precious samples, which Mars Sample Return could deliver to Earth for detailed study in the future. Learn More Mars 2020 Team Discoveries During its first five years on the Martian surface, Perseverance has collected more than two dozen geologically diverse rock samples — including one containing potential biosignatures — explored the history of geology, water, and habitable environments in Jezero crater and on the crater rim, demonstrated proof-of-concept for an off-world helicopter and onsite oxygen production, in preparation for future human exploration, and made numerous science discoveries and technical breakthroughs. Here are just a few. More Perseverance Science Perseverance Sheds More Light on Jezero Crater’s Watery Past The rover discovered a habitable, stable lake, delta, and river system in Jezero Crater's history. Read More The (Crater) Floor Was Lava Scientists were surprised to find two different types of volcanic rock that had interacted with water, making up Jezero Crater’s floor. Read More Perseverance Fords an Ancient River to Reach Science Target Originally considered just a route to avoid rover-slowing boulders, Neretva Vallis has provided a bounty of geologic options for the science team. Read More Perseverance Studies the Wild Winds of Jezero Crater The rover observed diverse and dynamic weather fluctuations, seasonal changes, and a complex hydrologic cycle. Read More First On-the-Ground Recording of the Martian Soundscape Hear sounds from Mars captured by NASA’s Perseverance rover. Read More Harvesting Oxygen From the Martian Atmosphere MOXIE device successfully produces oxygen from carbon dioxide in the Martian atmosphere — technology for future explorers to fill lungs and fuel rockets. Read More Scenic Overlook See what Perseverance has been capturing this week with its cameras. View Raw Images about Scenic Overlook Landing Site: Jezero Crater NASA chose Jezero Crater as the landing site for the Perseverance rover. Scientists believe the area was once flooded with water and was home to an ancient river delta. The process of landing site selection involved a combination of mission team members and scientists from around the world, who carefully examined more than 60 candidate locations on the Red Planet. After the exhaustive five-year study of potential sites, each with its own unique characteristics and appeal, Jezero rose to the top. Jezero Crater tells a story of the on-again, off-again nature of the wet past of Mars. More than 3.5 billion years ago, river channels spilled over the crater wall and created a lake. Scientists see evidence that water carried clay minerals from the surrounding area into the crater lake. Conceivably, microbial life could have lived in Jezero during one or more of these wet times. If so, signs of their remains might be found in lakebed or shoreline sediments. Scientists will study how the region formed and evolved, seek signs of past life, and collect samples of Mars rock and soil that might preserve these signs. Jezero Crater is 28 miles (45 kilometers) wide, and is located on the western edge of a flat plain called Isidis Planitia, which lies just north of the Martian equator. The landing site is about 2,300 miles (3,700 kilometers) from the Curiosity rover landing site in Gale Crater. This image shows the remains of an ancient delta in Mars' Jezero Crater, which NASA's Perseverance Mars rover is exploring for signs of ancient microbial life. ESA/DLR/FU-Berlin Featured Video Perseverance Mars Rover Drive Path Animation This animated orbital-map view shows the route NASA’s Perseverance Mars rover has taken since its February 2021 landing at Jezero Crater to July 2024, when it took its “Cheyava Falls” sample. As of October 2024, the rover has driven over 30 kilometers (18.65 miles), and has collected 24 samples of rock and regolith as well as one air sample. Learn More Objective The Perseverance rover is searching for signs of ancient microbial life, which will advance NASA's quest to explore the past habitability of Mars. Science The rover’s mission has four science objectives: Studying Mars' Habitability, Seeking Signs of Past Microbial Life, Collecting and Caching Samples, and Preparing for Future Human Missions. Raw Images View raw images sent back by Perseverance from its explorations on Mars. Resources Visit the one-stop-shop for all Perseverance media. Mission Updates Read updates provided by self-selected Mars 2020 mission team members who love to share with the public what Perseverance is doing. The Mars Report Your source for everything on or about the Red Planet, continuing NASA's six decades of unparalleled exploration and discoveries — mission news, science findings, unique Mars imagery, and more. Mars Ingenuity Helicopter Strapped to the rover's belly for the journey to Mars was a technology demonstration — the Mars Helicopter, Ingenuity, which completed 72 historic flights. In a feat that's been called a “Wright Brothers moment,” Ingenuity became the first aircraft to achieve powered, controlled flight on another planet. Learn More About Ingenuity about Mars Ingenuity Helicopter This enhanced color image of NASA's Ingenuity Mars Helicopter was taken by the Mastcam-Z instrument aboard Perseverance on April 16, 2023 NASA/JPL-Caltech/ASU/MSSS Perseverance Lands on Mars ‘Tango Delta. Touchdown confirmed!’ Feb. 18, 2021: Watch and hear views and commentary from mission control at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, as the Mars 2020 Perseverance mission lands on Mars. Video includes actual footage from cameras on the spacecraft's entry, descent, and landing suite as it approached the Martian surface. Watch ‘Perseverance Rover’s Descent and Touchdown on Mars (Official NASA Video)’ News and Features All Perseverance Rover News Article 1 Min Read Perseverance’s View of ‘Turquoise Bay’ Article 5 Min Read NASA Discovery Reveals Complex Water Systems on Early Mars 2 Min Read Perseverance Captures Another Phobos Transit Article 6 Min Read NASA Tests Featherweight Radar Antenna for SkyFall Mars Helicopters Blog 2 Min Read NASA’s Perseverance Captures Phobos and Earth Article Keep Exploring Discover More Topics From NASA Perseverance Science Highlights Mars Science Laboratory: Curiosity Rover Part of NASA's Mars Science Laboratory mission, at the time of launch, Curiosity was the largest and most capable rover… Mars Exploration Mars is the only planet we know of inhabited entirely by robots. Learn more about the Mars Missions. Mars Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun, and the seventh largest. It’s the only planet we know of inhabited… National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery. About NASA's Mission Join Us Home News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA NASA en Español Follow NASA More NASA Social Accounts NASA Newsletters Sitemap For Media Privacy Policy FOIA No FEAR Act Office of the IG Budget & Annual Reports Agency Financial Reports Contact NASA Accessibility Page Last Updated: Aug 05, 2026 Page Editor: Stephen Carney Responsible NASA Official for Science: Dana Bolles Δ Did you find what you were looking for? (Required) Yes No Partly What were you looking for? (Required) What were you hoping to accomplish by visiting our website? (Required) Submit × 