| RFC 9113 | HTTP/2 | June 2022 | 
| Thomson & Benfield | Standards Track | [Page] | 

This specification describes an optimized expression of the semantics of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), referred to as HTTP version 2 (HTTP/2). HTTP/2 enables a more efficient use of network resources and a reduced latency by introducing field compression and allowing multiple concurrent exchanges on the same connection.¶

This document obsoletes RFCs 7540 and 8740.¶

This is an Internet Standards Track document.¶

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.¶

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113.¶

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights reserved.¶

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.¶

The performance of applications using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP, [HTTP]) is linked to how each version of HTTP uses the underlying transport, and the conditions under which the transport operates.¶

Making multiple concurrent requests can reduce latency and improve application performance. HTTP/1.0 allowed only one request to be outstanding at a time on a given TCP [TCP] connection. HTTP/1.1 [HTTP/1.1] added request pipelining, but this only partially addressed request concurrency and still suffers from application-layer head-of-line blocking. Therefore, HTTP/1.0 and HTTP/1.1 clients use multiple connections to a server to make concurrent requests.¶

Furthermore, HTTP fields are often repetitive and verbose, causing unnecessary network traffic as well as causing the initial TCP congestion window to quickly fill. This can result in excessive latency when multiple requests are made on a new TCP connection.¶

HTTP/2 addresses these issues by defining an optimized mapping of HTTP's semantics to an underlying connection. Specifically, it allows interleaving of messages on the same connection and uses an efficient coding for HTTP fields. It also allows prioritization of requests, letting more important requests complete more quickly, further improving performance.¶

The resulting protocol is more friendly to the network because fewer TCP connections can be used in comparison to HTTP/1.x. This means less competition with other flows and longer-lived connections, which in turn lead to better utilization of available network capacity. Note, however, that TCP head-of-line blocking is not addressed by this protocol.¶

Finally, HTTP/2 also enables more efficient processing of messages through use of binary message framing.¶

This document obsoletes RFCs 7540 and 8740. Appendix B lists notable changes.¶

HTTP/2 provides an optimized transport for HTTP semantics. HTTP/2 supports all of the core features of HTTP but aims to be more efficient than HTTP/1.1.¶

HTTP/2 is a connection-oriented application-layer protocol that runs over a TCP connection ([TCP]). The client is the TCP connection initiator.¶

The basic protocol unit in HTTP/2 is a frame (Section 4.1). Each frame type serves a different purpose. For example, HEADERS and DATA frames form the basis of HTTP requests and responses (Section 8.1); other frame types like SETTINGS, WINDOW_UPDATE, and PUSH_PROMISE are used in support of other HTTP/2 features.¶

Multiplexing of requests is achieved by having each HTTP request/response exchange associated with its own stream (Section 5). Streams are largely independent of each other, so a blocked or stalled request or response does not prevent progress on other streams.¶

Effective use of multiplexing depends on flow control and prioritization. Flow control (Section 5.2) ensures that it is possible to efficiently use multiplexed streams by restricting data that is transmitted to what the receiver is able to handle. Prioritization (Section 5.3) ensures that limited resources are used most effectively. This revision of HTTP/2 deprecates the priority signaling scheme from [RFC7540].¶

Because HTTP fields used in a connection can contain large amounts of redundant data, frames that contain them are compressed (Section 4.3). This has especially advantageous impact upon request sizes in the common case, allowing many requests to be compressed into one packet.¶

Finally, HTTP/2 adds a new, optional interaction mode whereby a server can push responses to a client (Section 8.4). This is intended to allow a server to speculatively send data to a client that the server anticipates the client will need, trading off some network usage against a potential latency gain. The server does this by synthesizing a request, which it sends as a PUSH_PROMISE frame. The server is then able to send a response to the synthetic request on a separate stream.¶

The HTTP/2 specification is split into four parts:¶

- Starting HTTP/2 (Section 3) covers how an HTTP/2 connection is initiated.¶
- The frame (Section 4) and stream (Section 5) layers describe the way HTTP/2 frames are structured and formed into multiplexed streams.¶
- Frame (Section 6) and error (Section 7) definitions include details of the frame and error types used in HTTP/2.¶
- HTTP mappings (Section 8) and additional requirements (Section 9) describe how HTTP semantics are expressed using frames and streams.¶

While some of the frame- and stream-layer concepts are isolated from HTTP, this specification does not define a completely generic frame layer. The frame and stream layers are tailored to the needs of HTTP.¶

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.¶

All numeric values are in network byte order.  Values are unsigned unless otherwise
          indicated.  Literal values are provided in decimal or hexadecimal as appropriate.
          Hexadecimal literals are prefixed with "`0x`" to distinguish them
          from decimal literals.¶

This specification describes binary formats using the conventions described in Section 1.3 of RFC 9000 [QUIC]. Note that this format uses network byte order and that high-valued bits are listed before low-valued bits.¶

The following terms are used:¶

- client:
- The endpoint that initiates an HTTP/2 connection. Clients send HTTP requests and receive HTTP responses.¶
- connection:
- A transport-layer connection between two endpoints.¶
- connection error:
- An error that affects the entire HTTP/2 connection.¶
- endpoint:
- Either the client or server of the connection.¶
- frame:
- The smallest unit of communication within an HTTP/2 connection, consisting of a header and a variable-length sequence of octets structured according to the frame type.¶
- peer:
- An endpoint. When discussing a particular endpoint, "peer" refers to the endpoint that is remote to the primary subject of discussion.¶
- receiver:
- An endpoint that is receiving frames.¶
- sender:
- An endpoint that is transmitting frames.¶
- server:
- The endpoint that accepts an HTTP/2 connection. Servers receive HTTP requests and send HTTP responses.¶
- stream:
- A bidirectional flow of frames within the HTTP/2 connection.¶
- stream error:
- An error on the individual HTTP/2 stream.¶

Finally, the terms "gateway", "intermediary", "proxy", and "tunnel" are defined in Section 3.7 of [HTTP]. Intermediaries act as both client and server at different times.¶

The term "content" as it applies to message bodies is defined in Section 6.4 of [HTTP].¶

Implementations that generate HTTP requests need to discover whether a server supports HTTP/2.¶

HTTP/2 uses the "`http`" and "`https`" URI schemes defined in Section 4.2 of [HTTP], with the same default port numbers as HTTP/1.1 [HTTP/1.1]. These URIs do not include any indication about what HTTP versions an
        upstream server (the immediate peer to which the client wishes to establish a connection)
        supports.¶

The means by which support for HTTP/2 is determined is different for "`http`" and "`https`"
        URIs.  Discovery for "`https`" URIs is described in Section 3.2. HTTP/2
        support for "`http`" URIs can only be discovered by out-of-band means and requires prior knowledge
        of the support as described in Section 3.3.¶

The protocol defined in this document has two identifiers. Creating a connection based on either implies the use of the transport, framing, and message semantics described in this document.¶

- 
            The string "h2" identifies the protocol where HTTP/2 uses Transport Layer Security (TLS); see Section 9.2. This identifier is used in the TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) extension [TLS-ALPN] field and in any place where HTTP/2 over TLS is identified.¶ The "h2" string is serialized into an ALPN protocol identifier as the two-octet sequence: 0x68, 0x32.¶
- 
            The "h2c" string was previously used as a token for use in the HTTP Upgrade mechanism's Upgrade header field (Section 7.8 of [HTTP]). This usage was never widely deployed and is deprecated by this document. The same applies to the HTTP2-Settings header field, which was used with the upgrade to "h2c".¶

`https`" URIs
        A client that makes a request to an "`https`" URI uses TLS [TLS13] with
          the ALPN extension [TLS-ALPN].¶

HTTP/2 over TLS uses the "h2" protocol identifier. The "h2c" protocol identifier MUST NOT be sent by a client or selected by a server; the "h2c" protocol identifier describes a protocol that does not use TLS.¶

Once TLS negotiation is complete, both the client and the server MUST send a connection preface (Section 3.4).¶

A client can learn that a particular server supports HTTP/2 by other means. For example, a client could be configured with knowledge that a server supports HTTP/2.¶

A client that knows that a server supports HTTP/2 can establish a TCP connection and send the connection preface (Section 3.4) followed by HTTP/2 frames. Servers can identify these connections by the presence of the connection preface. This only affects the establishment of HTTP/2 connections over cleartext TCP; HTTP/2 connections over TLS MUST use protocol negotiation in TLS [TLS-ALPN].¶

Likewise, the server MUST send a connection preface (Section 3.4).¶

Without additional information, prior support for HTTP/2 is not a strong signal that a given server will support HTTP/2 for future connections. For example, it is possible for server configurations to change, for configurations to differ between instances in clustered servers, or for network conditions to change.¶

In HTTP/2, each endpoint is required to send a connection preface as a final confirmation of the protocol in use and to establish the initial settings for the HTTP/2 connection. The client and server each send a different connection preface.¶

The client connection preface starts with a sequence of 24 octets, which in hex notation is:¶

  0x505249202a20485454502f322e300d0a0d0a534d0d0a0d0a

That is, the connection preface starts with the string "```
PRI *
          HTTP/2.0\r\n\r\nSM\r\n\r\n
```
". This sequence
          MUST be followed by a SETTINGS frame (Section 6.5), which
          MAY be empty. The client sends the client connection preface as the first
          application data octets of a connection.¶

The server connection preface consists of a potentially empty SETTINGS frame (Section 6.5) that MUST be the first frame the server sends in the HTTP/2 connection.¶

The SETTINGS frames received from a peer as part of the connection preface MUST be acknowledged (see Section 6.5.3) after sending the connection preface.¶

To avoid unnecessary latency, clients are permitted to send additional frames to the server immediately after sending the client connection preface, without waiting to receive the server connection preface. It is important to note, however, that the server connection preface SETTINGS frame might include settings that necessarily alter how a client is expected to communicate with the server. Upon receiving the SETTINGS frame, the client is expected to honor any settings established. In some configurations, it is possible for the server to transmit SETTINGS before the client sends additional frames, providing an opportunity to avoid this issue.¶

Clients and servers MUST treat an invalid connection preface as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. A GOAWAY frame (Section 6.8) MAY be omitted in this case, since an invalid preface indicates that the peer is not using HTTP/2.¶

Once the HTTP/2 connection is established, endpoints can begin exchanging frames.¶

All frames begin with a fixed 9-octet header followed by a variable-length frame payload.¶

The fields of the frame header are defined as:¶

- Length:
- 
            The length of the frame payload expressed as an unsigned 24-bit integer in units of octets. Values greater than 2 <sup>14</sup> (16,384) MUST NOT be sent unless the receiver has
                set a larger value for SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE.¶The 9 octets of the frame header are not included in this value.¶
- Type:
- 
            The 8-bit type of the frame. The frame type determines the format and semantics of the frame. Frames defined in this document are listed in Section 6. Implementations MUST ignore and discard frames of unknown types.¶
- Flags:
- 
            An 8-bit field reserved for boolean flags specific to the frame type.¶ Flags are assigned semantics specific to the indicated frame type. Unused flags are those that have no defined semantics for a particular frame type. Unused flags MUST be ignored on receipt and MUST be left unset (0x00) when sending.¶
- Reserved:
- 
            A reserved 1-bit field. The semantics of this bit are undefined, and the bit MUST remain unset (0x00) when sending and MUST be ignored when receiving.¶
- Stream Identifier:
- 
            A stream identifier (see Section 5.1.1) expressed as an unsigned 31-bit integer. The value 0x00 is reserved for frames that are associated with the connection as a whole as opposed to an individual stream.¶

The structure and content of the frame payload are dependent entirely on the frame type.¶

The size of a frame payload is limited by the maximum size that a receiver advertises in
          the SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE setting.  This setting can have any value
          between 2<sup>14</sup> (16,384) and 2<sup>24</sup>-1 (16,777,215) octets,
          inclusive.¶

All implementations MUST be capable of receiving and minimally processing frames up to
          2<sup>14</sup> octets in length, plus the 9-octet frame
          header (Section 4.1).  The size of the frame header is not included when describing frame sizes.¶

An endpoint MUST send an error code of FRAME_SIZE_ERROR if a frame exceeds the size defined in SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE, exceeds any limit defined for the frame type, or is too small to contain mandatory frame data. A frame size error in a frame that could alter the state of the entire connection MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1); this includes any frame carrying a field block (Section 4.3) (that is, HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, and CONTINUATION), a SETTINGS frame, and any frame with a stream identifier of 0.¶

Endpoints are not obligated to use all available space in a frame. Responsiveness can be improved by using frames that are smaller than the permitted maximum size. Sending large frames can result in delays in sending time-sensitive frames (such as RST_STREAM, WINDOW_UPDATE, or PRIORITY), which, if blocked by the transmission of a large frame, could affect performance.¶

Field section compression is the process of compressing a set of field lines (Section 5.2 of [HTTP]) to form a field block. Field section decompression is the process of decoding a field block into a set of field lines. Details of HTTP/2 field section compression and decompression are defined in [COMPRESSION], which, for historical reasons, refers to these processes as header compression and decompression.¶

Each field block carries all of the compressed field lines of a single field section. Header sections also include control data associated with the message in the form of pseudo-header fields (Section 8.3) that use the same format as a field line.¶

Field blocks carry control data and header sections for requests, responses, promised requests, and pushed responses (see Section 8.4). All these messages, except for interim responses and requests contained in PUSH_PROMISE (Section 6.6) frames, can optionally include a field block that carries a trailer section.¶

A field section is a collection of field lines. Each of the field lines in a field block carries a single value. The serialized field block is then divided into one or more octet sequences, called field block fragments. The first field block fragment is transmitted within the frame payload of HEADERS (Section 6.2) or PUSH_PROMISE (Section 6.6), each of which could be followed by CONTINUATION (Section 6.10) frames to carry subsequent field block fragments.¶

The Cookie header field [COOKIE] is treated specially by the HTTP mapping (see Section 8.2.3).¶

A receiving endpoint reassembles the field block by concatenating its fragments and then decompresses the block to reconstruct the field section.¶

A complete field section consists of either:¶

- a single HEADERS or PUSH_PROMISE frame, with the END_HEADERS flag set, or¶
- a HEADERS or PUSH_PROMISE frame with the END_HEADERS flag unset and one or more CONTINUATION frames, where the last CONTINUATION frame has the END_HEADERS flag set.¶

Each field block is processed as a discrete unit. Field blocks MUST be transmitted as a contiguous sequence of frames, with no interleaved frames of any other type or from any other stream. The last frame in a sequence of HEADERS or CONTINUATION frames has the END_HEADERS flag set. The last frame in a sequence of PUSH_PROMISE or CONTINUATION frames has the END_HEADERS flag set. This allows a field block to be logically equivalent to a single frame.¶

Field block fragments can only be sent as the frame payload of HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, or CONTINUATION frames because these frames carry data that can modify the compression context maintained by a receiver. An endpoint receiving HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, or CONTINUATION frames needs to reassemble field blocks and perform decompression even if the frames are to be discarded. A receiver MUST terminate the connection with a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type COMPRESSION_ERROR if it does not decompress a field block.¶

A decoding error in a field block MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type COMPRESSION_ERROR.¶

Field compression is stateful. Each endpoint has an HPACK encoder context and an HPACK decoder context that are used for encoding and decoding all field blocks on a connection. Section 4 of [COMPRESSION] defines the dynamic table, which is the primary state for each context.¶

The dynamic table has a maximum size that is set by an HPACK decoder. An endpoint communicates the size chosen by its HPACK decoder context using the SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE setting; see Section 6.5.2. When a connection is established, the dynamic table size for the HPACK decoder and encoder at both endpoints starts at 4,096 bytes, the initial value of the SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE setting.¶

Any change to the maximum value set using SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE takes effect when the endpoint acknowledges settings (Section 6.5.3). The HPACK encoder at that endpoint can set the dynamic table to any size up to the maximum value set by the decoder. An HPACK encoder declares the size of the dynamic table with a Dynamic Table Size Update instruction (Section 6.3 of [COMPRESSION]).¶

Once an endpoint acknowledges a change to SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE that reduces the maximum below the current size of the dynamic table, its HPACK encoder MUST start the next field block with a Dynamic Table Size Update instruction that sets the dynamic table to a size that is less than or equal to the reduced maximum; see Section 4.2 of [COMPRESSION]. An endpoint MUST treat a field block that follows an acknowledgment of the reduction to the maximum dynamic table size as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type COMPRESSION_ERROR if it does not start with a conformant Dynamic Table Size Update instruction.¶

A "stream" is an independent, bidirectional sequence of frames exchanged between the client and server within an HTTP/2 connection. Streams have several important characteristics:¶

- A single HTTP/2 connection can contain multiple concurrently open streams, with either endpoint interleaving frames from multiple streams.¶
- Streams can be established and used unilaterally or shared by either endpoint.¶
- Streams can be closed by either endpoint.¶
- The order in which frames are sent is significant. Recipients process frames in the order they are received. In particular, the order of HEADERS and DATA frames is semantically significant.¶
- Streams are identified by an integer. Stream identifiers are assigned to streams by the endpoint initiating the stream.¶

The lifecycle of a stream is shown in Figure 2.¶

- 
`send` :
- endpoint sends this frame¶
- 
`recv` :
- endpoint receives this frame¶
- 
`H` :
- HEADERS frame (with implied CONTINUATION frames)¶
- 
`ES` :
- END_STREAM flag¶
- 
`R` :
- RST_STREAM frame¶
- 
`PP` :
- PUSH_PROMISE frame (with implied CONTINUATION frames); state transitions are for the promised stream¶

Note that this diagram shows stream state transitions and the frames and flags that affect those transitions only. In this regard, CONTINUATION frames do not result in state transitions; they are effectively part of the HEADERS or PUSH_PROMISE that they follow. For the purpose of state transitions, the END_STREAM flag is processed as a separate event to the frame that bears it; a HEADERS frame with the END_STREAM flag set can cause two state transitions.¶

Both endpoints have a subjective view of the state of a stream that could be different when frames are in transit. Endpoints do not coordinate the creation of streams; they are created unilaterally by either endpoint. The negative consequences of a mismatch in states are limited to the "closed" state after sending RST_STREAM, where frames might be received for some time after closing.¶

Streams have the following states:¶

- idle:
- 
            All streams start in the "idle" state.¶ The following transitions are valid from this state:¶ 
  - Sending a HEADERS frame as a client, or receiving a HEADERS frame as a server, causes the stream to become "open". The stream identifier is selected as described in Section 5.1.1. The same HEADERS frame can also cause a stream to immediately become "half-closed".¶
  - Sending a PUSH_PROMISE frame on another stream reserves the idle stream that is identified for later use. The stream state for the reserved stream transitions to "reserved (local)". Only a server may send PUSH_PROMISE frames.¶
  - Receiving a PUSH_PROMISE frame on another stream reserves an idle stream that is identified for later use. The stream state for the reserved stream transitions to "reserved (remote)". Only a client may receive PUSH_PROMISE frames.¶
  - Note that the PUSH_PROMISE frame is not sent on the idle stream but references the newly reserved stream in the Promised Stream ID field.¶
  - Opening a stream with a higher-valued stream identifier causes the stream to transition immediately to a "closed" state; note that this transition is not shown in the diagram.¶
 Receiving any frame other than HEADERS or PRIORITY on a stream in this state MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. If this stream is initiated by the server, as described in Section 5.1.1, then receiving a HEADERS frame MUST also be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶
- reserved (local):
- 
            A stream in the "reserved (local)" state is one that has been promised by sending a PUSH_PROMISE frame. A PUSH_PROMISE frame reserves an idle stream by associating the stream with an open stream that was initiated by the remote peer (see Section 8.4).¶ In this state, only the following transitions are possible:¶ 
  - The endpoint can send a HEADERS frame. This causes the stream to open in a "half-closed (remote)" state.¶
  - Either endpoint can send a RST_STREAM frame to cause the stream to become "closed". This releases the stream reservation.¶
 An endpoint MUST NOT send any type of frame other than HEADERS, RST_STREAM, or PRIORITY in this state.¶ A PRIORITY or WINDOW_UPDATE frame MAY be received in this state. Receiving any type of frame other than RST_STREAM, PRIORITY, or WINDOW_UPDATE on a stream in this state MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶
- reserved (remote):
- 
            A stream in the "reserved (remote)" state has been reserved by a remote peer.¶ In this state, only the following transitions are possible:¶ 
  - Receiving a HEADERS frame causes the stream to transition to "half-closed (local)".¶
  - Either endpoint can send a RST_STREAM frame to cause the stream to become "closed". This releases the stream reservation.¶
 An endpoint MUST NOT send any type of frame other than RST_STREAM, WINDOW_UPDATE, or PRIORITY in this state.¶ Receiving any type of frame other than HEADERS, RST_STREAM, or PRIORITY on a stream in this state MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶
- open:
- 
            A stream in the "open" state may be used by both peers to send frames of any type. In this state, sending peers observe advertised stream-level flow-control limits (Section 5.2).¶ From this state, either endpoint can send a frame with an END_STREAM flag set, which causes the stream to transition into one of the "half-closed" states. An endpoint sending an END_STREAM flag causes the stream state to become "half-closed (local)"; an endpoint receiving an END_STREAM flag causes the stream state to become "half-closed (remote)".¶ Either endpoint can send a RST_STREAM frame from this state, causing it to transition immediately to "closed".¶
- half-closed (local):
- 
            A stream that is in the "half-closed (local)" state cannot be used for sending frames other than WINDOW_UPDATE, PRIORITY, and RST_STREAM.¶ A stream transitions from this state to "closed" when a frame is received with the END_STREAM flag set or when either peer sends a RST_STREAM frame.¶ An endpoint can receive any type of frame in this state. Providing flow-control credit using WINDOW_UPDATE frames is necessary to continue receiving flow-controlled frames. In this state, a receiver can ignore WINDOW_UPDATE frames, which might arrive for a short period after a frame with the END_STREAM flag set is sent.¶ PRIORITY frames can be received in this state.¶
- half-closed (remote):
- 
            A stream that is "half-closed (remote)" is no longer being used by the peer to send frames. In this state, an endpoint is no longer obligated to maintain a receiver flow-control window.¶ If an endpoint receives additional frames, other than WINDOW_UPDATE, PRIORITY, or RST_STREAM, for a stream that is in this state, it MUST respond with a stream error (Section 5.4.2) of type STREAM_CLOSED.¶ A stream that is "half-closed (remote)" can be used by the endpoint to send frames of any type. In this state, the endpoint continues to observe advertised stream-level flow-control limits (Section 5.2).¶ A stream can transition from this state to "closed" by sending a frame with the END_STREAM flag set or when either peer sends a RST_STREAM frame.¶
- closed:
- 
            The "closed" state is the terminal state.¶ A stream enters the "closed" state after an endpoint both sends and receives a frame with an END_STREAM flag set. A stream also enters the "closed" state after an endpoint either sends or receives a RST_STREAM frame.¶ An endpoint MUST NOT send frames other than PRIORITY on a closed stream. An endpoint MAY treat receipt of any other type of frame on a closed stream as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type STREAM_CLOSED, except as noted below.¶ An endpoint that sends a frame with the END_STREAM flag set or a RST_STREAM frame might receive a WINDOW_UPDATE or RST_STREAM frame from its peer in the time before the peer receives and processes the frame that closes the stream.¶ An endpoint that sends a RST_STREAM frame on a stream that is in the "open" or "half-closed (local)" state could receive any type of frame. The peer might have sent or enqueued for sending these frames before processing the RST_STREAM frame. An endpoint MUST minimally process and then discard any frames it receives in this state. This means updating header compression state for HEADERS and PUSH_PROMISE frames. Receiving a PUSH_PROMISE frame also causes the promised stream to become "reserved (remote)", even when the PUSH_PROMISE frame is received on a closed stream. Additionally, the content of DATA frames counts toward the connection flow-control window.¶ An endpoint can perform this minimal processing for all streams that are in the "closed" state. Endpoints MAY use other signals to detect that a peer has received the frames that caused the stream to enter the "closed" state and treat receipt of any frame other than PRIORITY as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. Endpoints can use frames that indicate that the peer has received the closing signal to drive this. Endpoints SHOULD NOT use timers for this purpose. For example, an endpoint that sends a SETTINGS frame after closing a stream can safely treat receipt of a DATA frame on that stream as an error after receiving an acknowledgment of the settings. Other things that might be used are PING frames, receiving data on streams that were created after closing the stream, or responses to requests created after closing the stream.¶

In the absence of more specific rules, implementations SHOULD treat the receipt of a frame that is not expressly permitted in the description of a state as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. Note that PRIORITY can be sent and received in any stream state.¶

The rules in this section only apply to frames defined in this document. Receipt of frames for which the semantics are unknown cannot be treated as an error, as the conditions for sending and receiving those frames are also unknown; see Section 5.5.¶

An example of the state transitions for an HTTP request/response exchange can be found in Section 8.8. An example of the state transitions for server push can be found in Sections 8.4.1 and 8.4.2.¶

Streams are identified by an unsigned 31-bit integer. Streams initiated by a client MUST use odd-numbered stream identifiers; those initiated by the server MUST use even-numbered stream identifiers. A stream identifier of zero (0x00) is used for connection control messages; the stream identifier of zero cannot be used to establish a new stream.¶

The identifier of a newly established stream MUST be numerically greater than all streams that the initiating endpoint has opened or reserved. This governs streams that are opened using a HEADERS frame and streams that are reserved using PUSH_PROMISE. An endpoint that receives an unexpected stream identifier MUST respond with a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

A HEADERS frame will transition the client-initiated stream identified by the stream identifier in the frame header from "idle" to "open". A PUSH_PROMISE frame will transition the server-initiated stream identified by the Promised Stream ID field in the frame payload from "idle" to "reserved (local)" or "reserved (remote)". When a stream transitions out of the "idle" state, all streams in the "idle" state that might have been opened by the peer with a lower-valued stream identifier immediately transition to "closed". That is, an endpoint may skip a stream identifier, with the effect being that the skipped stream is immediately closed.¶

Stream identifiers cannot be reused. Long-lived connections can result in an endpoint exhausting the available range of stream identifiers. A client that is unable to establish a new stream identifier can establish a new connection for new streams. A server that is unable to establish a new stream identifier can send a GOAWAY frame so that the client is forced to open a new connection for new streams.¶

A peer can limit the number of concurrently active streams using the SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS parameter (see Section 6.5.2) within a SETTINGS frame. The maximum concurrent streams setting is specific to each endpoint and applies only to the peer that receives the setting. That is, clients specify the maximum number of concurrent streams the server can initiate, and servers specify the maximum number of concurrent streams the client can initiate.¶

Streams that are in the "open" state or in either of the "half-closed" states count toward the maximum number of streams that an endpoint is permitted to open. Streams in any of these three states count toward the limit advertised in the SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS setting. Streams in either of the "reserved" states do not count toward the stream limit.¶

Endpoints MUST NOT exceed the limit set by their peer. An endpoint that receives a HEADERS frame that causes its advertised concurrent stream limit to be exceeded MUST treat this as a stream error (Section 5.4.2) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR or REFUSED_STREAM. The choice of error code determines whether the endpoint wishes to enable automatic retry (see Section 8.7 for details).¶

An endpoint that wishes to reduce the value of SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS to a value that is below the current number of open streams can either close streams that exceed the new value or allow streams to complete.¶

Using streams for multiplexing introduces contention over use of the TCP connection, resulting in blocked streams. A flow-control scheme ensures that streams on the same connection do not destructively interfere with each other. Flow control is used for both individual streams and the connection as a whole.¶

HTTP/2 provides for flow control through use of the WINDOW_UPDATE frame (Section 6.9).¶

HTTP/2 stream flow control aims to allow a variety of flow-control algorithms to be used without requiring protocol changes. Flow control in HTTP/2 has the following characteristics:¶

1. Flow control is specific to a connection. HTTP/2 flow control operates between the endpoints of a single hop and not over the entire end-to-end path.¶
2. Flow control is based on WINDOW_UPDATE frames. Receivers advertise how many octets they are prepared to receive on a stream and for the entire connection. This is a credit-based scheme.¶
3. Flow control is directional with overall control provided by the receiver. A receiver MAY choose to set any window size that it desires for each stream and for the entire connection. A sender MUST respect flow-control limits imposed by a receiver. Clients, servers, and intermediaries all independently advertise their flow-control window as a receiver and abide by the flow-control limits set by their peer when sending.¶
4. The initial value for the flow-control window is 65,535 octets for both new streams and the overall connection.¶
5. The frame type determines whether flow control applies to a frame. Of the frames specified in this document, only DATA frames are subject to flow control; all other frame types do not consume space in the advertised flow-control window. This ensures that important control frames are not blocked by flow control.¶
6. An endpoint can choose to disable its own flow control, but an endpoint cannot ignore flow-control signals from its peer.¶
7. HTTP/2 defines only the format and semantics of the WINDOW_UPDATE frame (Section 6.9). This document does not stipulate how a receiver decides when to send this frame or the value that it sends, nor does it specify how a sender chooses to send packets. Implementations are able to select any algorithm that suits their needs.¶

Implementations are also responsible for prioritizing the sending of requests and responses, choosing how to avoid head-of-line blocking for requests, and managing the creation of new streams. Algorithm choices for these could interact with any flow-control algorithm.¶

Flow control is defined to protect endpoints that are operating under resource constraints. For example, a proxy needs to share memory between many connections and also might have a slow upstream connection and a fast downstream one. Flow control addresses cases where the receiver is unable to process data on one stream yet wants to continue to process other streams in the same connection.¶

Deployments that do not require this capability can advertise a flow-control window of
            the maximum size (2<sup>31</sup>-1) and can maintain this window by sending a
            WINDOW_UPDATE frame when any data is received.  This effectively disables
            flow control for that receiver.  Conversely, a sender is always subject to the
            flow-control window advertised by the receiver.¶

Deployments with constrained resources (for example, memory) can employ flow control to limit the amount of memory a peer can consume. Note, however, that this can lead to suboptimal use of available network resources if flow control is enabled without knowledge of the bandwidth * delay product (see [RFC7323]).¶

Even with full awareness of the current bandwidth * delay product, implementation of flow control can be difficult. Endpoints MUST read and process HTTP/2 frames from the TCP receive buffer as soon as data is available. Failure to read promptly could lead to a deadlock when critical frames, such as WINDOW_UPDATE, are not read and acted upon. Reading frames promptly does not expose endpoints to resource exhaustion attacks, as HTTP/2 flow control limits resource commitments.¶

If an endpoint cannot ensure that its peer always has available flow-control window space that is greater than the peer's bandwidth * delay product on this connection, its receive throughput will be limited by HTTP/2 flow control. This will result in degraded performance.¶

Sending timely WINDOW_UPDATE frames can improve performance. Endpoints will want to balance the need to improve receive throughput with the need to manage resource exhaustion risks and should take careful note of Section 10.5 in defining their strategy to manage window sizes.¶

In a multiplexed protocol like HTTP/2, prioritizing allocation of bandwidth and computation resources to streams can be critical to attaining good performance. A poor prioritization scheme can result in HTTP/2 providing poor performance. With no parallelism at the TCP layer, performance could be significantly worse than HTTP/1.1.¶

A good prioritization scheme benefits from the application of contextual knowledge such as the content of resources, how resources are interrelated, and how those resources will be used by a peer. In particular, clients can possess knowledge about the priority of requests that is relevant to server prioritization. In those cases, having clients provide priority information can improve performance.¶

RFC 7540 defined a rich system for signaling priority of requests. However, this system proved to be complex, and it was not uniformly implemented.¶

The flexible scheme meant that it was possible for clients to express priorities in very different ways, with little consistency in the approaches that were adopted. For servers, implementing generic support for the scheme was complex. Implementation of priorities was uneven in both clients and servers. Many server deployments ignored client signals when prioritizing their handling of requests.¶

In short, the prioritization signaling in RFC 7540 [RFC7540] was not successful.¶

This update to HTTP/2 deprecates the priority signaling defined in RFC 7540 [RFC7540]. The bulk of the text related to priority signals is not included in this document. The description of frame fields and some of the mandatory handling is retained to ensure that implementations of this document remain interoperable with implementations that use the priority signaling described in RFC 7540.¶

A thorough description of the RFC 7540 priority scheme remains in Section 5.3 of [RFC7540].¶

Signaling priority information is necessary to attain good performance in many cases. Where signaling priority information is important, endpoints are encouraged to use an alternative scheme, such as the scheme described in [HTTP-PRIORITY].¶

Though the priority signaling from RFC 7540 was not widely adopted, the information it provides can still be useful in the absence of better information. Endpoints that receive priority signals in HEADERS or PRIORITY frames can benefit from applying that information. In particular, implementations that consume these signals would not benefit from discarding these priority signals in the absence of alternatives.¶

Servers SHOULD use other contextual information in determining priority of requests in the absence of any priority signals. Servers MAY interpret the complete absence of signals as an indication that the client has not implemented the feature. The defaults described in Section 5.3.5 of [RFC7540] are known to have poor performance under most conditions, and their use is unlikely to be deliberate.¶

HTTP/2 framing permits two classes of errors:¶

- An error condition that renders the entire connection unusable is a connection error.¶
- An error in an individual stream is a stream error.¶

A list of error codes is included in Section 7.¶

It is possible that an endpoint will encounter frames that would cause multiple errors. Implementations MAY discover multiple errors during processing, but they SHOULD report at most one stream and one connection error as a result.¶

The first stream error reported for a given stream prevents any other errors on that stream from being reported. In comparison, the protocol permits multiple GOAWAY frames, though an endpoint SHOULD report just one type of connection error unless an error is encountered during graceful shutdown. If this occurs, an endpoint MAY send an additional GOAWAY frame with the new error code, in addition to any prior GOAWAY that contained NO_ERROR.¶

If an endpoint detects multiple different errors, it MAY choose to report any one of those errors. If a frame causes a connection error, that error MUST be reported. Additionally, an endpoint MAY use any applicable error code when it detects an error condition; a generic error code (such as PROTOCOL_ERROR or INTERNAL_ERROR) can always be used in place of more specific error codes.¶

A connection error is any error that prevents further processing of the frame layer or corrupts any connection state.¶

An endpoint that encounters a connection error SHOULD first send a GOAWAY frame (Section 6.8) with the stream identifier of the last stream that it successfully received from its peer. The GOAWAY frame includes an error code (Section 7) that indicates why the connection is terminating. After sending the GOAWAY frame for an error condition, the endpoint MUST close the TCP connection.¶

It is possible that the GOAWAY will not be reliably received by the receiving endpoint. In the event of a connection error, GOAWAY only provides a best-effort attempt to communicate with the peer about why the connection is being terminated.¶

An endpoint can end a connection at any time. In particular, an endpoint MAY choose to treat a stream error as a connection error. Endpoints SHOULD send a GOAWAY frame when ending a connection, providing that circumstances permit it.¶

A stream error is an error related to a specific stream that does not affect processing of other streams.¶

An endpoint that detects a stream error sends a RST_STREAM frame (Section 6.4) that contains the stream identifier of the stream where the error occurred. The RST_STREAM frame includes an error code that indicates the type of error.¶

A RST_STREAM is the last frame that an endpoint can send on a stream. The peer that sends the RST_STREAM frame MUST be prepared to receive any frames that were sent or enqueued for sending by the remote peer. These frames can be ignored, except where they modify connection state (such as the state maintained for field section compression (Section 4.3) or flow control).¶

Normally, an endpoint SHOULD NOT send more than one RST_STREAM frame for any stream. However, an endpoint MAY send additional RST_STREAM frames if it receives frames on a closed stream after more than a round-trip time. This behavior is permitted to deal with misbehaving implementations.¶

To avoid looping, an endpoint MUST NOT send a RST_STREAM in response to a RST_STREAM frame.¶

If the TCP connection is closed or reset while streams remain in the "open" or "half-closed" states, then the affected streams cannot be automatically retried (see Section 8.7 for details).¶

HTTP/2 permits extension of the protocol. Within the limitations described in this section, protocol extensions can be used to provide additional services or alter any aspect of the protocol. Extensions are effective only within the scope of a single HTTP/2 connection.¶

This applies to the protocol elements defined in this document. This does not affect the existing options for extending HTTP, such as defining new methods, status codes, or fields (see Section 16 of [HTTP]).¶

Extensions are permitted to use new frame types (Section 4.1), new settings (Section 6.5), or new error codes (Section 7). Registries for managing these extension points are defined in Section 11 of [RFC7540].¶

Implementations MUST ignore unknown or unsupported values in all extensible protocol elements. Implementations MUST discard frames that have unknown or unsupported types. This means that any of these extension points can be safely used by extensions without prior arrangement or negotiation. However, extension frames that appear in the middle of a field block (Section 4.3) are not permitted; these MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

Extensions SHOULD avoid changing protocol elements defined in this document or elements for which no extension mechanism is defined. This includes changes to the layout of frames, additions or changes to the way that frames are composed into HTTP messages (Section 8.1), the definition of pseudo-header fields, or changes to any protocol element that a compliant endpoint might treat as a connection error (Section 5.4.1).¶

An extension that changes existing protocol elements or state MUST be negotiated before being used. For example, an extension that changes the layout of the HEADERS frame cannot be used until the peer has given a positive signal that this is acceptable. In this case, it could also be necessary to coordinate when the revised layout comes into effect. For example, treating frames other than DATA frames as flow controlled requires a change in semantics that both endpoints need to understand, so this can only be done through negotiation.¶

This document doesn't mandate a specific method for negotiating the use of an extension but notes that a setting (Section 6.5.2) could be used for that purpose. If both peers set a value that indicates willingness to use the extension, then the extension can be used. If a setting is used for extension negotiation, the initial value MUST be defined in such a fashion that the extension is initially disabled.¶

This specification defines a number of frame types, each identified by a unique 8-bit type code. Each frame type serves a distinct purpose in the establishment and management of either the connection as a whole or individual streams.¶

The transmission of specific frame types can alter the state of a connection. If endpoints fail to maintain a synchronized view of the connection state, successful communication within the connection will no longer be possible. Therefore, it is important that endpoints have a shared comprehension of how the state is affected by the use of any given frame.¶

DATA frames (type=0x00) convey arbitrary, variable-length sequences of octets associated with a stream. One or more DATA frames are used, for instance, to carry HTTP request or response message contents.¶

DATA frames MAY also contain padding. Padding can be added to DATA frames to obscure the size of messages. Padding is a security feature; see Section 10.7.¶

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identifier fields are described in Section 4. The DATA frame contains the following additional fields:¶

- Pad Length:
- An 8-bit field containing the length of the frame padding in units of octets. This field is conditional and is only present if the PADDED flag is set.¶
- Data:
- Application data. The amount of data is the remainder of the frame payload after subtracting the length of the other fields that are present.¶
- Padding:
- Padding octets that contain no application semantic value. Padding octets MUST be set to zero when sending. A receiver is not obligated to verify padding but MAY treat non-zero padding as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

The DATA frame defines the following flags:¶

- PADDED (0x08):
- When set, the PADDED flag indicates that the Pad Length field and any padding that it describes are present.¶
- END_STREAM (0x01):
- When set, the END_STREAM flag indicates that this frame is the last that the endpoint will send for the identified stream. Setting this flag causes the stream to enter one of the "half-closed" states or the "closed" state (Section 5.1).¶

DATA frames MUST be associated with a stream. If a DATA frame is received whose Stream Identifier field is 0x00, the recipient MUST respond with a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

DATA frames are subject to flow control and can only be sent when a stream is in the "open" or "half-closed (remote)" state. The entire DATA frame payload is included in flow control, including the Pad Length and Padding fields if present. If a DATA frame is received whose stream is not in the "open" or "half-closed (local)" state, the recipient MUST respond with a stream error (Section 5.4.2) of type STREAM_CLOSED.¶

The total number of padding octets is determined by the value of the Pad Length field. If the length of the padding is the length of the frame payload or greater, the recipient MUST treat this as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

The HEADERS frame (type=0x01) is used to open a stream (Section 5.1), and additionally carries a field block fragment. Despite the name, a HEADERS frame can carry a header section or a trailer section. HEADERS frames can be sent on a stream in the "idle", "reserved (local)", "open", or "half-closed (remote)" state.¶

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identifier fields are described in Section 4. The HEADERS frame payload has the following additional fields:¶

- Pad Length:
- An 8-bit field containing the length of the frame padding in units of octets. This field is only present if the PADDED flag is set.¶
- Exclusive:
- A single-bit flag. This field is only present if the PRIORITY flag is set. Priority signals in HEADERS frames are deprecated; see Section 5.3.2.¶
- Stream Dependency:
- A 31-bit stream identifier. This field is only present if the PRIORITY flag is set.¶
- Weight:
- An unsigned 8-bit integer. This field is only present if the PRIORITY flag is set.¶
- Field Block Fragment:
- A field block fragment (Section 4.3).¶
- Padding:
- Padding octets that contain no application semantic value. Padding octets MUST be set to zero when sending. A receiver is not obligated to verify padding but MAY treat non-zero padding as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

The HEADERS frame defines the following flags:¶

- PRIORITY (0x20):
- 
            When set, the PRIORITY flag indicates that the Exclusive, Stream Dependency, and Weight fields are present.¶
- PADDED (0x08):
- 
            When set, the PADDED flag indicates that the Pad Length field and any padding that it describes are present.¶
- END_HEADERS (0x04):
- 
            When set, the END_HEADERS flag indicates that this frame contains an entire field block (Section 4.3) and is not followed by any CONTINUATION frames.¶ A HEADERS frame without the END_HEADERS flag set MUST be followed by a CONTINUATION frame for the same stream. A receiver MUST treat the receipt of any other type of frame or a frame on a different stream as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶
- END_STREAM (0x01):
- 
            When set, the END_STREAM flag indicates that the field block (Section 4.3) is the last that the endpoint will send for the identified stream.¶ A HEADERS frame with the END_STREAM flag set signals the end of a stream. However, a HEADERS frame with the END_STREAM flag set can be followed by CONTINUATION frames on the same stream. Logically, the CONTINUATION frames are part of the HEADERS frame.¶

The frame payload of a HEADERS frame contains a field block fragment (Section 4.3). A field block that does not fit within a HEADERS frame is continued in a CONTINUATION frame (Section 6.10).¶

HEADERS frames MUST be associated with a stream. If a HEADERS frame is received whose Stream Identifier field is 0x00, the recipient MUST respond with a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

The HEADERS frame changes the connection state as described in Section 4.3.¶

The PRIORITY frame (type=0x02) is deprecated; see Section 5.3.2. A PRIORITY frame can be sent in any stream state, including idle or closed streams.¶

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identifier fields are described in Section 4. The frame payload of a PRIORITY frame contains the following additional fields:¶

- Exclusive:
- A single-bit flag.¶
- Stream Dependency:
- A 31-bit stream identifier.¶
- Weight:
- An unsigned 8-bit integer.¶

The PRIORITY frame does not define any flags.¶

The PRIORITY frame always identifies a stream. If a PRIORITY frame is received with a stream identifier of 0x00, the recipient MUST respond with a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

Sending or receiving a PRIORITY frame does not affect the state of any stream (Section 5.1). The PRIORITY frame can be sent on a stream in any state, including "idle" or "closed". A PRIORITY frame cannot be sent between consecutive frames that comprise a single field block (Section 4.3).¶

A PRIORITY frame with a length other than 5 octets MUST be treated as a stream error (Section 5.4.2) of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.¶

The RST_STREAM frame (type=0x03) allows for immediate termination of a stream. RST_STREAM is sent to request cancellation of a stream or to indicate that an error condition has occurred.¶

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identifier fields are described in Section 4. Additionally, the RST_STREAM frame contains a single unsigned, 32-bit integer identifying the error code (Section 7). The error code indicates why the stream is being terminated.¶

The RST_STREAM frame does not define any flags.¶

The RST_STREAM frame fully terminates the referenced stream and causes it to enter the "closed" state. After receiving a RST_STREAM on a stream, the receiver MUST NOT send additional frames for that stream, except for PRIORITY. However, after sending the RST_STREAM, the sending endpoint MUST be prepared to receive and process additional frames sent on the stream that might have been sent by the peer prior to the arrival of the RST_STREAM.¶

RST_STREAM frames MUST be associated with a stream. If a RST_STREAM frame is received with a stream identifier of 0x00, the recipient MUST treat this as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

RST_STREAM frames MUST NOT be sent for a stream in the "idle" state. If a RST_STREAM frame identifying an idle stream is received, the recipient MUST treat this as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

A RST_STREAM frame with a length other than 4 octets MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.¶

The SETTINGS frame (type=0x04) conveys configuration parameters that affect how endpoints communicate, such as preferences and constraints on peer behavior. The SETTINGS frame is also used to acknowledge the receipt of those settings. Individually, a configuration parameter from a SETTINGS frame is referred to as a "setting".¶

Settings are not negotiated; they describe characteristics of the sending peer, which are used by the receiving peer. Different values for the same setting can be advertised by each peer. For example, a client might set a high initial flow-control window, whereas a server might set a lower value to conserve resources.¶

A SETTINGS frame MUST be sent by both endpoints at the start of a connection and MAY be sent at any other time by either endpoint over the lifetime of the connection. Implementations MUST support all of the settings defined by this specification.¶

Each parameter in a SETTINGS frame replaces any existing value for that parameter. Settings are processed in the order in which they appear, and a receiver of a SETTINGS frame does not need to maintain any state other than the current value of each setting. Therefore, the value of a SETTINGS parameter is the last value that is seen by a receiver.¶

SETTINGS frames are acknowledged by the receiving peer. To enable this, the SETTINGS frame defines the ACK flag:¶

- ACK (0x01):
- When set, the ACK flag indicates that this frame acknowledges receipt and application of the peer's SETTINGS frame. When this bit is set, the frame payload of the SETTINGS frame MUST be empty. Receipt of a SETTINGS frame with the ACK flag set and a length field value other than 0 MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR. For more information, see Section 6.5.3 ("Settings Synchronization").¶

SETTINGS frames always apply to a connection, never a single stream. The stream identifier for a SETTINGS frame MUST be zero (0x00). If an endpoint receives a SETTINGS frame whose Stream Identifier field is anything other than 0x00, the endpoint MUST respond with a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

The SETTINGS frame affects connection state. A badly formed or incomplete SETTINGS frame MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

A SETTINGS frame with a length other than a multiple of 6 octets MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.¶

The frame payload of a SETTINGS frame consists of zero or more settings, each consisting of an unsigned 16-bit setting identifier and an unsigned 32-bit value.¶

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identifier fields are described in Section 4. The frame payload of a SETTINGS frame contains any number of Setting fields, each of which consists of:¶

- Identifier:
- A 16-bit setting identifier; see Section 6.5.2.¶
- Value:
- A 32-bit value for the setting.¶

The following settings are defined:¶

- 
SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE (0x01):
- 
              This setting allows the sender to inform the remote endpoint of the maximum size of the compression table used to decode field blocks, in units of octets. The encoder can select any size equal to or less than this value by using signaling specific to the compression format inside a field block (see [COMPRESSION]). The initial value is 4,096 octets.¶
- 
SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH (0x02):
- 
              This setting can be used to enable or disable server push. A server MUST NOT send a PUSH_PROMISE frame if it receives this parameter set to a value of 0; see Section 8.4. A client that has both set this parameter to 0 and had it acknowledged MUST treat the receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE frame as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶ The initial value of SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH is 1. For a client, this value indicates that it is willing to receive PUSH_PROMISE frames. For a server, this initial value has no effect, and is equivalent to the value 0. Any value other than 0 or 1 MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶ A server MUST NOT explicitly set this value to 1. A server MAY choose to omit this setting when it sends a SETTINGS frame, but if a server does include a value, it MUST be 0. A client MUST treat receipt of a SETTINGS frame with SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH set to 1 as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶
- 
SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS (0x03):
- 
              This setting indicates the maximum number of concurrent streams that the sender will allow. This limit is directional: it applies to the number of streams that the sender permits the receiver to create. Initially, there is no limit to this value. It is recommended that this value be no smaller than 100, so as to not unnecessarily limit parallelism.¶ A value of 0 for SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS SHOULD NOT be treated as special by endpoints. A zero value does prevent the creation of new streams; however, this can also happen for any limit that is exhausted with active streams. Servers SHOULD only set a zero value for short durations; if a server does not wish to accept requests, closing the connection is more appropriate.¶
- 
SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE (0x04):
- 
              This setting indicates the sender's initial window size (in units of octets) for stream-level flow control. The initial value is 2 <sup>16</sup> -1 (65,535) octets.¶This setting affects the window size of all streams (see Section 6.9.2).¶ Values above the maximum flow-control window size of 2 <sup>31</sup> -1 MUST
                  be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of
                  type FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR.¶
- 
SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE (0x05):
- 
              This setting indicates the size of the largest frame payload that the sender is willing to receive, in units of octets.¶ The initial value is 2 <sup>14</sup> (16,384) octets.  The value advertised by
                  an endpoint MUST be between this initial value and the maximum allowed frame size
                  (2<sup>24</sup> -1 or 16,777,215 octets), inclusive.  Values outside this range
                  MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1)
                  of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶
- 
SETTINGS_MAX_HEADER_LIST_SIZE (0x06):
- 
              This advisory setting informs a peer of the maximum field section size that the sender is prepared to accept, in units of octets. The value is based on the uncompressed size of field lines, including the length of the name and value in units of octets plus an overhead of 32 octets for each field line.¶ For any given request, a lower limit than what is advertised MAY be enforced. The initial value of this setting is unlimited.¶

An endpoint that receives a SETTINGS frame with any unknown or unsupported identifier MUST ignore that setting.¶

Most values in SETTINGS benefit from or require an understanding of when the peer has received and applied the changed parameter values. In order to provide such synchronization timepoints, the recipient of a SETTINGS frame in which the ACK flag is not set MUST apply the updated settings as soon as possible upon receipt. SETTINGS frames are acknowledged in the order in which they are received.¶

The values in the SETTINGS frame MUST be processed in the order they appear, with no other frame processing between values. Unsupported settings MUST be ignored. Once all values have been processed, the recipient MUST immediately emit a SETTINGS frame with the ACK flag set. Upon receiving a SETTINGS frame with the ACK flag set, the sender of the altered settings can rely on the values from the oldest unacknowledged SETTINGS frame having been applied.¶

If the sender of a SETTINGS frame does not receive an acknowledgment within a reasonable amount of time, it MAY issue a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type SETTINGS_TIMEOUT. In setting a timeout, some allowance needs to be made for processing delays at the peer; a timeout that is solely based on the round-trip time between endpoints might result in spurious errors.¶

The PUSH_PROMISE frame (type=0x05) is used to notify the peer endpoint in advance of streams the sender intends to initiate. The PUSH_PROMISE frame includes the unsigned 31-bit identifier of the stream the endpoint plans to create along with a field section that provides additional context for the stream. Section 8.4 contains a thorough description of the use of PUSH_PROMISE frames.¶

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identifier fields are described in Section 4. The PUSH_PROMISE frame payload has the following additional fields:¶

- Pad Length:
- An 8-bit field containing the length of the frame padding in units of octets. This field is only present if the PADDED flag is set.¶
- Promised Stream ID:
- An unsigned 31-bit integer that identifies the stream that is reserved by the PUSH_PROMISE. The promised stream identifier MUST be a valid choice for the next stream sent by the sender (see "new stream identifier" in Section 5.1.1).¶
- Field Block Fragment:
- A field block fragment (Section 4.3) containing the request control data and a header section.¶
- Padding:
- Padding octets that contain no application semantic value. Padding octets MUST be set to zero when sending. A receiver is not obligated to verify padding but MAY treat non-zero padding as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

The PUSH_PROMISE frame defines the following flags:¶

- PADDED (0x08):
- 
            When set, the PADDED flag indicates that the Pad Length field and any padding that it describes are present.¶
- END_HEADERS (0x04):
- 
            When set, the END_HEADERS flag indicates that this frame contains an entire field block (Section 4.3) and is not followed by any CONTINUATION frames.¶ A PUSH_PROMISE frame without the END_HEADERS flag set MUST be followed by a CONTINUATION frame for the same stream. A receiver MUST treat the receipt of any other type of frame or a frame on a different stream as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

PUSH_PROMISE frames MUST only be sent on a peer-initiated stream that is in either the "open" or "half-closed (remote)" state. The stream identifier of a PUSH_PROMISE frame indicates the stream it is associated with. If the Stream Identifier field specifies the value 0x00, a recipient MUST respond with a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

Promised streams are not required to be used in the order they are promised. The PUSH_PROMISE only reserves stream identifiers for later use.¶

PUSH_PROMISE MUST NOT be sent if the SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH setting of the peer endpoint is set to 0. An endpoint that has set this setting and has received acknowledgment MUST treat the receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE frame as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

Recipients of PUSH_PROMISE frames can choose to reject promised streams by returning a RST_STREAM referencing the promised stream identifier back to the sender of the PUSH_PROMISE.¶

A PUSH_PROMISE frame modifies the connection state in two ways. First, the inclusion of a field block (Section 4.3) potentially modifies the state maintained for field section compression. Second, PUSH_PROMISE also reserves a stream for later use, causing the promised stream to enter the "reserved (local)" or "reserved (remote)" state. A sender MUST NOT send a PUSH_PROMISE on a stream unless that stream is either "open" or "half-closed (remote)"; the sender MUST ensure that the promised stream is a valid choice for a new stream identifier (Section 5.1.1) (that is, the promised stream MUST be in the "idle" state).¶

Since PUSH_PROMISE reserves a stream, ignoring a PUSH_PROMISE frame causes the stream state to become indeterminate. A receiver MUST treat the receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE on a stream that is neither "open" nor "half-closed (local)" as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. However, an endpoint that has sent RST_STREAM on the associated stream MUST handle PUSH_PROMISE frames that might have been created before the RST_STREAM frame is received and processed.¶

A receiver MUST treat the receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE that promises an illegal stream identifier (Section 5.1.1) as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. Note that an illegal stream identifier is an identifier for a stream that is not currently in the "idle" state.¶

The PING frame (type=0x06) is a mechanism for measuring a minimal round-trip time from the sender, as well as determining whether an idle connection is still functional. PING frames can be sent from any endpoint.¶

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identifier fields are described in Section 4.¶

In addition to the frame header, PING frames MUST contain 8 octets of opaque data in the frame payload. A sender can include any value it chooses and use those octets in any fashion.¶

Receivers of a PING frame that does not include an ACK flag MUST send a PING frame with the ACK flag set in response, with an identical frame payload. PING responses SHOULD be given higher priority than any other frame.¶

The PING frame defines the following flags:¶

- ACK (0x01):
- When set, the ACK flag indicates that this PING frame is a PING response. An endpoint MUST set this flag in PING responses. An endpoint MUST NOT respond to PING frames containing this flag.¶

PING frames are not associated with any individual stream. If a PING frame is received with a Stream Identifier field value other than 0x00, the recipient MUST respond with a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

Receipt of a PING frame with a length field value other than 8 MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.¶

The GOAWAY frame (type=0x07) is used to initiate shutdown of a connection or to signal serious error conditions. GOAWAY allows an endpoint to gracefully stop accepting new streams while still finishing processing of previously established streams. This enables administrative actions, like server maintenance.¶

There is an inherent race condition between an endpoint starting new streams and the remote peer sending a GOAWAY frame. To deal with this case, the GOAWAY contains the stream identifier of the last peer-initiated stream that was or might be processed on the sending endpoint in this connection. For instance, if the server sends a GOAWAY frame, the identified stream is the highest-numbered stream initiated by the client.¶

Once the GOAWAY is sent, the sender will ignore frames sent on streams initiated by the receiver if the stream has an identifier higher than the included last stream identifier. Receivers of a GOAWAY frame MUST NOT open additional streams on the connection, although a new connection can be established for new streams.¶

If the receiver of the GOAWAY has sent data on streams with a higher stream identifier than what is indicated in the GOAWAY frame, those streams are not or will not be processed. The receiver of the GOAWAY frame can treat the streams as though they had never been created at all, thereby allowing those streams to be retried later on a new connection.¶

Endpoints SHOULD always send a GOAWAY frame before closing a connection so that the remote peer can know whether a stream has been partially processed or not. For example, if an HTTP client sends a POST at the same time that a server closes a connection, the client cannot know if the server started to process that POST request if the server does not send a GOAWAY frame to indicate what streams it might have acted on.¶

An endpoint might choose to close a connection without sending a GOAWAY for misbehaving peers.¶

A GOAWAY frame might not immediately precede closing of the connection; a receiver of a GOAWAY that has no more use for the connection SHOULD still send a GOAWAY frame before terminating the connection.¶

The GOAWAY frame does not define any flags.¶

The GOAWAY frame applies to the connection, not a specific stream. An endpoint MUST treat a GOAWAY frame with a stream identifier other than 0x00 as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.¶

The last stream identifier in the GOAWAY frame contains the highest-numbered stream identifier for which the sender of the GOAWAY frame might have taken some action on or might yet take action on. All streams up to and including the identified stream might have been processed in some way. The last stream identifier can be set to 0 if no streams were processed.¶

If a connection terminates without a GOAWAY frame, the last stream identifier is effectively the highest possible stream identifier.¶

On streams with lower- or equal-numbered identifiers that were not closed completely prior to the connection being closed, reattempting requests, transactions, or any protocol activity is not possible, except for idempotent actions like HTTP GET, PUT, or DELETE. Any protocol activity that uses higher-numbered streams can be safely retried using a new connection.¶

Activity on streams numbered lower than or equal to the last stream identifier might still complete successfully. The sender of a GOAWAY frame might gracefully shut down a connection by sending a GOAWAY frame, maintaining the connection in an "open" state until all in-progress streams complete.¶

An endpoint MAY send multiple GOAWAY frames if circumstances change. For instance, an endpoint that sends GOAWAY with NO_ERROR during graceful shutdown could subsequently encounter a condition that requires immediate termination of the connection. The last stream identifier from the last GOAWAY frame received indicates which streams could have been acted upon. Endpoints MUST NOT increase the value they send in the last stream identifier, since the peers might already have retried unprocessed requests on another connection.¶

A client that is unable to retry requests loses all requests that are in flight when the
          server closes the connection.  This is especially true for intermediaries that might not
          be serving clients using HTTP/2.  A server that is attempting to gracefully shut down a
          connection SHOULD send an initial GOAWAY frame with the last stream identifier set to
          2<sup>31</sup>-1 and a NO_ERROR code.  This signals to the client that
          a shutdown is imminent and that initiating further requests is prohibited.  After allowing
          time for any in-flight stream creation (at least one round-trip time),  the server MAY
          send another GOAWAY frame with an updated last stream identifier.  This ensures that a
          connection can be cleanly shut down without losing requests.¶

After sending a GOAWAY frame, the sender can discard frames for streams initiated by the receiver with identifiers higher than the identified last stream. However, any frames that alter connection state cannot be completely ignored. For instance, HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, and CONTINUATION frames MUST be minimally processed to ensure that the state maintained for field section compression is consistent (see Section 4.3); similarly, DATA frames MUST be counted toward the connection flow-control window. Failure to process these frames can cause flow control or field section compression state to become unsynchronized.¶

The GOAWAY frame also contains a 32-bit error code (Section 7) that contains the reason for closing the connection.¶

Endpoints MAY append opaque data to the frame payload of any GOAWAY frame. Additional debug data is intended for diagnostic purposes only and carries no semantic value. Debug information could contain security- or privacy-sensitive data. Logged or otherwise persistently stored debug data MUST have adequate safeguards to prevent unauthorized access.¶

The WINDOW_UPDATE frame (type=0x08) is used to implement flow control; see Section 5.2 for an overview.¶

Flow control operates at two levels: on each individual stream and on the entire connection.¶

Both types of flow control are hop by hop, that is, only between the two endpoints. Intermediaries do not forward WINDOW_UPDATE frames between dependent connections. However, throttling of data transfer by any receiver can indirectly cause the propagation of flow-control information toward the original sender.¶

Flow control only applies to frames that are identified as being subject to flow control. Of the frame types defined in this document, this includes only DATA frames. Frames that are exempt from flow control MUST be accepted and processed, unless the receiver is unable to assign resources to handling the frame. A receiver MAY respond with a stream error (Section 5.4.2) or connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR if it is unable to accept a frame.¶

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identifier fields are described in Section 4.
          The frame payload of a WINDOW_UPDATE frame is one reserved bit plus an unsigned 31-bit integer
          indicating the number of octets that the sender can transmit in addition to the existing
          flow-control window.  The legal range for the increment to the flow-control window is 1 to
          2<sup>31</sup>-1 (2,147,483,647) octets.¶

The WINDOW_UPDATE frame does not define any flags.¶

The WINDOW_UPDATE frame can be specific to a stream or to the entire connection. In the former case, the frame's stream identifier indicates the affected stream; in the latter, the value "0" indicates that the entire connection is the subject of the frame.¶

A receiver MUST treat the receipt of a WINDOW_UPDATE frame with a flow-control window increment of 0 as a stream error (Section 5.4.2) of type PROTOCOL_ERROR; errors on the connection flow-control window MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1).¶

WINDOW_UPDATE can be sent by a peer that has sent a frame with the END_STREAM flag set. This means that a receiver could receive a WINDOW_UPDATE frame on a stream in a "half-closed (remote)" or "closed" state. A receiver MUST NOT treat this as an error (see Section 5.1).¶

A receiver that receives a flow-controlled frame MUST always account for its contribution against the connection flow-control window, unless the receiver treats this as a connection error (Section 5.4.1). This is necessary even if the frame is in error. The sender counts the frame toward the flow-control window, but if the receiver does not, the flow-control window at the sender and receiver can become different.¶

A WINDOW_UPDATE frame with a length other than 4 octets MUST be treated as a connection error (Section 5.4.1) of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.¶

Flow control in HTTP/2 is implemented usin