 Park History - Yellowstone National Park (U.S. National Park Service) An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Skip to global NPS navigation Skip to this park navigation Skip to the main content Skip to this park information section Skip to the footer section National Park Service Yellowstone National Park Search Search This Site All NPS Open Menu Close Menu Explore This Park Explore the National Park Service Exiting nps.gov Cancel Yellowstone National Park Info Alerts Maps Calendar Fees Contact Us Park History People have spent time in the Yellowstone region for more than 11,000 years. Rock structures like this are evidence of the early presence of people in the area. The human history of the Yellowstone region extends back more than 11,000 years. The stories of people in Yellowstone are preserved in archeological sites and objects that convey information about past human activities in the region, and in people’s connections to the land that provide a sense of place or identity. Today, park managers use archeological and historical studies to help us understand how people lived here in the past. Ethnography helps us learn about how groups of people identify themselves and their connections to the park. Research is also conducted to learn how people continue to affect and be affected by these places, many of which have been relatively protected from human impacts. Some alterations to the landscape, such as the construction of roads and other facilities, are generally accepted as necessary to accommodate the needs of visitors today. Information on the possible consequences of modern human activities, both inside and outside the parks, is used to determine how best to preserve Yellowstone’s natural and cultural resources, and the quality of the visitors’ experience. History of Yellowstone National Park Precontact People have been in Yellowstone more than 11,000 years, as shown by archeological sites, trails, and oral histories. Although Tukudika (a.k.a. Sheep Eaters) are the most well-known group of Native Americans to use the park, many other tribes and bands lived in and traveled through what is now Yellowstone National Park prior to and after European American arrival. European Americans Arrive European Americans began exploring in the early 1800s. Osborne Russell recorded early visits in the 1830s. First organized expedition explored Yellowstone in 1870. Protection of the Park Begins Yellowstone National Park established in 1872. Railroad arrived in 1883, allowing easier visitor access. The US Army managed the park from 1886 through 1918. Automobiles allowed into the park in 1915, making visits easier and more economical. National Park Service created in 1916. First boundary adjustment of the park made in 1929. Park Management Evolves 1963: “Leopold Report” released. Recommended changes to how wildlife is managed in the park. 1970: New bear management plan eliminated open-pit garbage dumps in park. 1988: “Summer of Fire.” 1995: Wolves restored to the park. 1996: Federal buyout of gold mine northeast of Yellowstone protected the park. Resources Source: NPS DataStore Collection 7815 (results presented are a subset). To search for additional information, visit the NPS DataStore . The Earliest Humans in Yellowstone Human occupation of this area seems to follow environmental changes of the last 15,000 years. Historic Tribes Many tribes have a traditional connection to this region and its resources. Timeline of Human History in Yellowstone The human history of the Yellowstone region goes back more than 11,000 years. European Americans Arrive In the late 1700s, fur traders traveled the Yellowstone River in search of Native Americans with whom to trade. Expeditions Explore Yellowstone Formal expeditions mapped and explored the area, leading to the nation's understanding of the region. Birth of a National Park Learn about Yellowstone's early days as a national park. Modern Management Managing the national park has evolved over time and dealt with some complex issues. History & Culture Explore the rich human and ecological stories that continue to unfold. Last updated: June 2, 2025 Park footer Contact Info Mailing Address: PO Box 168 Yellowstone National Park, WY 82190-0168 Phone: 307-344-7381 Contact Us Tools FAQ Site Index Español Stay Connected This Site All NPS Experience Your America. Download the NPS app to navigate the parks on the go. Accessibility Privacy Policy FOIA Notices Contact Yellowstone National Park NPS FAQ No Fear Act Disclaimer Vulnerability Disclosure Policy USA.gov Office of Civil Rights Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov 