 The Declaration of Independence | National Archives Top Skip to main content The U.S. National Archives Home Citizen Archivists · Bookmark/Share · Contact Us Search Search Main menu Research Our Records Veterans' Service Records Educator Resources Visit Us America's Founding Documents America's Founding Documents Home > America's Founding Documents > Declaration of Independence America's Founding Documents Main Page Explore the Documents Declaration of Independence Constitution of the United States Bill of Rights Special Features High Resolution Downloads Sign the Declaration or Constitution The Faulkner Murals Meet the Framers of the Constitution Other Resources Visit the National Archives View Other Milestone Documents Browse Teaching Resources for the Revolutionary Era Civics for All of US Explore Online Exhibits Search the National Archives Catalog Discover the Founders Online Shop the Archives Store The Declaration of Independence We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. Preamble to the Declaration of Independence The Declaration of Independence states the principles on which our government, and our identity as Americans, are based. Unlike the other founding documents, the Declaration of Independence is not legally binding, but it is powerful. Abraham Lincoln called it “a rebuke and a stumbling-block to tyranny and oppression.” It continues to inspire people around the world to fight for freedom and equality. Enlarge PDF Link Download Link The Declaration of Independence (front) The condition of the parchment Declaration of Independence is a sign of the place it has held in the hearts of many Americans. Years of public display have faded and worn this treasured document. Today it is maintained under the most exacting archival conditions possible. Read a Transcript Enlarge PDF Link Download Link The Declaration of Independence (back) When we removed the Declaration of Independence from the Rotunda in 2001 to prepare it for a new case, we were able to look at the reverse side. No treasure map was found, but there were two lines of text, "Original Declaration of Independence dated 4th. July 1776" written along the bottom edge. This docket (identifying label) could be read when the document was rolled up for storage. Enlarge Download Link Stone Engraving of the Declaration of Independence In 1820, the Declaration of Independence was already showing signs of age. Secretary of State John Quincy Adams commissioned printer William J. Stone to make a full-size copperplate engraving. This plate was used to print copies of the Declaration. The 1823 Stone engraving is the most frequently reproduced version of the Declaration. Read Articles About the Declaration The article "The Declaration of Independence: A History," provides a detailed account of the Declaration, from its drafting through its preservation today at the National Archives. "The Stylistic Artistry of the Declaration of Independence" by Stephen Lucas. By closely examining its language, this perceptive article sheds light on the Declaration as a work of literature and of persuasion. From Prologue, Spring 1990. The Virginia Declaration of Rights strongly influenced Thomas Jefferson in writing the first part of the Declaration of Independence. It later provided the foundation for the Bill of Rights. Back to Main Page What Does it Say? Snippet About the Declaration What Does it Say? The meaning of the document How Did it Happen? The history of the document How Was it Made? The creation of the parchment document Where can I learn about the Declaration? Additional activities and information How can I visit the Declaration? The National Archives Museum Read a Transcript Declaration of Independence transcript Read a Transcript in Spanish La Declaración de Independencia Shop the Archives NationalArchivesStore.org Snippet Print This Page This page was last reviewed on February 6, 2026. Contact us with questions or comments . Founding Documents Explore the Documents Declaration of Independence Constitution of the United States Bill of Rights Special Features High Resolution Downloads Sign the Declaration The Faulkner Murals Meet the Framers of the Constitution Other Resources Plan Your Visit to the Archives View Other Milestone Documents Browse Revolutionary Era Classroom Activities Explore Online Exhibits Search the National Archives Catalog Shop the Archives Store I Want To… Get My Military Record Plan a Research Visit Visit the Archives View Online Exhibits Apply for a Grant Participate Attend an Event Donate to the Archives Work at the Archives Volunteer at the Archives Resources America's Founding Docs Contact Us En Español FAQs Forms Shop Online Visit the National Archives Store Buy Reproductions and Microfilm Connect With Us Facebook X Instagram Tumblr YouTube Blogs Flickr Contact Us · Accessibility · Privacy Policy · Freedom of Information Act · No FEAR Act · USA.gov The U.S. National Archives and Records Administration 1-86-NARA-NARA or 1-866-272-6272 Top × 