 Voyager 1: The Farthest Spacecraft — NASA Science Explore Search News & Events News & Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines NASA+ Search Suggested Searches ISS Roman Webb Quesst Moon Base View All Topics A-Z Home Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA Español News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Highlights 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Next Class of Flight Directors article 4 days ago 4 min read NASA Adds New Science Investigations for Moon Base article 6 days ago 3 min read What’s Up: October 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 5 days ago Back Missions Search All NASA Missions A to Z List of Missions Upcoming Launches and Landings Spaceships and Rockets Communicating with Missions Artemis James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope International Space Station OSIRIS-REx Humans in Space Why Go to Space Astronauts Commercial Space Destinations Spaceships and Rockets Living in Space Earth Explore Earth Science Climate Change Earth, Our Planet Earth Science in Action Earth Multimedia Earth Data Earth Science Researchers The Solar System The Sun Mercury Venus Earth The Moon Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto & Dwarf Planets Asteroids, Comets & Meteors The Kuiper Belt The Oort Cloud Skywatching The Universe Exoplanets The Search for Life in the Universe Stars Galaxies Black Holes The Big Bang Dark Matter Dark Energy Science Earth Science Planetary Science Astrophysics & Space Science The Sun & Heliophysics Biological & Physical Sciences Lunar Science Citizen Science Astromaterials Aeronautics Research Human Space Travel Research Aeronautics Science in the Air NASA Aircraft Flight Innovation Supersonic Flight Air Traffic Solutions Green Aviation Tech Drones & You Technology Technology Transfer & Spinoffs Space Travel Technology Technology Living in Space Manufacturing and Materials Robotics Science Instruments Computing Learning Resources For Kids and Students For Educators For Colleges and Universities For Professionals Science for Everyone Requests for Exhibits, Artifacts, or Speakers STEM Engagement at NASA About NASA NASA's Impacts Centers and Facilities Directorates Organizations People of NASA Careers Internships Our History Doing Business with NASA Get Involved Contact NASA en Español Ciencia Aeronáutica Ciencias Terrestres Sistema Solar Universo News & Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines Highlights 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago 6 min read NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA’s X-59 Completes Record Six Flights in One Week article 4 days ago Highlights 2 min read Help NASA Find Practical Ways to Monitor Astronaut Body Temperature in Low Earth Orbit article 6 days ago 3 min read NASA Opens 2027 Human Lander Challenge for Lunar Communications article 7 days ago 3 min read Researchers: Help NASA Prevent Blood Clot Formation in Space article 2 weeks ago Highlights 2 min read October 2026 Satellite Puzzler article 3 hours ago 4 min read The Beaver Brown Waters of Rupert Bay article 17 hours ago 3 min read Moon-Like Madagascar article 2 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn article 6 hours ago 2 min read 10 Things: Movie Night article 5 days ago 3 min read What’s Up: October 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 5 days ago Highlights 5 min read NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets article 8 hours ago 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago 6 min read NASA’s Webb Provides Crash Course on Planet-Shattering Collisions article 5 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Curiosity Rover Catches Stunning Martian Dawn article 6 hours ago 5 min read NASA’s Webb Captures Commotion From Nebula’s Stellar Jets article 8 hours ago 5 min read Suspected Second-generation Planet Solves NASA Hubble Cold Case article 1 day ago Highlights 2 min read NASA Model Wing Lights Up During First Pressure Sensitive Paint Tests article 4 days ago 2 min read Dr. Natasha Schatzman Receives Vertical Flight Society (VFS) Award article 5 days ago 10 min read 2026-2027 DWU: Middle School Design Challenge article 2 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read Rains Swamp the Gandak River article 5 days ago 1 min read Space Reactors Division article 5 days ago 4 min read Powerful Storms Continue to Prowl the Pacific article 7 days ago Highlights 8 min read NASA Selects Projects to Engage Communities Across the US with NASA Science article 4 days ago 3 min read TechRise (for 6–12 graders) article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Second Season of ORBIT Student Challenge article 1 week ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Testing Aims at Supercooled Large Droplet Aviation Safety article 1 day ago 2 min read NASA Opens Applications for Next Class of Flight Directors article 4 days ago 2 min read Help Overlap Zoo Reveal Cosmic Dust article 6 days ago Highlights 11 min read La NASA anuncia la cobertura de la misión lunar Artemis II article 6 months ago 15 min read Agenda diaria de la misión a la Luna de Artemis II de la NASA article 7 months ago 6 min read La NASA refuerza Artemis: añade una misión y perfecciona su arquitectura general article 7 months ago Explore This Section Voyager Home News Mission Updates Voyager Stories News Media Contacts Mission Overview Status Science Timeline Spacecraft -Voyager 1 -Voyager 2 The Golden Record Overview The Cover The Contents The Making of Galleries Videos Posters Making of the Golden Record Images on the Golden Record Images Voyager Took Images of Voyager Illustrations What is the Pale Blue Dot? Where Are They Now? FAQ Frequently Asked Questions Fact Sheet Fast Facts Q&A with Ed Stone Voyager 1 The most distant human-made object Active Mission Why Discover the Science Goals where Where are They Now? What What's on the Golden Record No spacecraft has gone farther than NASA's Voyager 1. Launched in 1977 to fly by Jupiter and Saturn, Voyager 1 crossed into interstellar space in August 2012 and continues to collect data. Mission Type Flyby launch Sept. 5, 1977 Goals Outer Solar System, Interstellar Space Status Extended Mission What is Voyager 1? Voyager 1 has been exploring our solar system since 1977. The probe is now in interstellar space, the region outside the heliopause, or the bubble of energetic particles and magnetic fields from the Sun. Voyager 1 was launched after Voyager 2, but because of a faster route it exited the asteroid belt earlier than its twin, and it overtook Voyager 2 on Dec. 15, 1977. Voyager 1 discovered a thin ring around Jupiter and two new Jovian moons: Thebe and Metis. At Saturn, Voyager 1 found five new moons and a new ring called the G-ring. Voyager 1 was the first spacecraft to cross the heliosphere, the boundary where the influences from outside our solar system are stronger than those from our Sun. Voyager 1 is the first human-made object to venture into interstellar space. Unable to render the provided source NASA Shuts Off Instrument on Voyager 1 to Keep Spacecraft Operating On April 17, engineers at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in Southern California shut down an instrument aboard Voyager 1, to save power and keep humanity’s first interstellar explorer going. Voyager 1 still has two science instruments operating, nearly 50 years into its mission; years ago Voyager scientists and engineers agreed on the order to shut off parts of the spacecraft, to preserve power while ensuring the mission can continue to conduct its unique science. Read the Latest on Voyager 1 An artist’s concept depicts one of NASA’s Voyager probes. The twin spacecraft launched in 1977. NASA/JPL-Caltech In Depth: Voyager 1 Nation United States of America (USA) Objective(s) Jupiter Flyby, Saturn Flyby Spacecraft Voyager 1 Spacecraft Mass 1,592 pounds (721.9 kilograms) Spacecraft Power 3 Multi-Hundred Watt Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generators (MHW-RTGs) stacked in a series on a boom, producing about 158 W e each, at launch. Mission Design and Management NASA / JPL Launch Vehicle Titan IIIE-Centaur (TC-6 / Titan no. 23E-6 / Centaur D-1T) Launch Date and Time Sept. 5, 1977 / 12:56:01 UT Key Dates March 5, 1979: Jupiter flyby - closest approach Nov. 12, 1980: Saturn flyby - closest approach Feb.17, 1998: Became the most distant human-made object after overtaking NASA's Pioneer 10 Jan. 1, 1990: Voyager Interstellar Mission (VIM) officially began Aug. 16, 2006: 100 astronomical units reached August 2012: Voyager 1 enters interstellar space Launch Site Cape Canaveral, Florida / Launch Complex 41 Scientific Instruments 1. Imaging Science System (ISS) 2. Ultraviolet Spectrometer (UVS) 3. Infrared Interferometer Spectrometer (IRIS) 4. Planetary Radio Astronomy Experiment (PRA) 5. Photopolarimeter (PPS) 6. Triaxial Fluxgate Magnetometer (MAG) 7. Plasma Spectrometer (PLS) 8. Low-Energy Charged Particles Experiment (LECP) 9. Plasma Waves Experiment (PWS) 10. Cosmic Ray Telescope (CRS) 11. Radio Science System (RSS) In Depth This is the original Voyager "Blue Movie," named for blue filter used to create the images. It shows the approach of Voyager 1 during a period of over 60 Jupiter days. Credit: NASA/JPL Voyager 1 launched after Voyager 2, but because of a faster route it exited the solar system earlier than its twin. Voyager 1 overtook Voyager 2 on Dec. 15, 1977. Voyager 1 began studying Jupiter in April 1978 at a range of 165 million miles (265 million km). Images showed Jupiter’s atmosphere to be more turbulent than during the Pioneer 10 and 11 flybys. Voyager 1 took a picture every 96 seconds to create a timelapse movie of the approach. In early 1979, Voyager 1 discovered a faint ring system around Jupiter. The spacecraft’s closest encounter with Jupiter was at 12:05 UT on March 5, 1979, at a range of 174,000 miles (280,000 km), It went on to encounter several of Jupiter’s moons, including Amalthea , I o , Europa , Ganymede , and Callisto . Spectacular close-up photos of the moons opened up completely new worlds for planetary scientists. The spacecraft discovered two new moons, Thebe and Metis . Voyager 1’s closest approach to Saturn was at 23:46 UT on Nov. 12, 1980, at a range of about 78,000 miles (126,000 km). Its flyby of the Saturn system was as spectacular as the Jupiter encounter. Voyager 1 found five new moons, a new ring, and complicated ring structures, including “shepherd moons” that keep some rings well-defined. The spacecraft photographed Saturn’s moons Titan , Mimas , Enceladus , Tethys , Dione , and Rhea . All the moons appeared to be composed largely of water ice. Images of Titan showed a thick atmosphere that completely hid the surface . The spacecraft found that the Titan’s atmosphere was composed of 90% nitrogen. Nitrogen, methane, and more complex hydrocarbons indicated prebiotic chemical reactions might be possible on Titan. After Saturn, Voyager 1 headed north out of the ecliptic plane at a speed of about 3.5 AU per year. Because of the specific requirements for the Titan flyby, the spacecraft was not directed to Uranus and Neptune . Voyager 1’s final 64 images were a mosaic taken at a distance of 40 Astronomical Units (AU) from the Sun. This solar system family portrait included six planets (Mercury and Mars were not visible). The image of Earth inspired the “ Pale Blue Dot ” made famous by Voyager science team member Carl Sagan (1934-1996). These were the last of a total of 67,000 images taken by the two Voyagers. The Voyager Interstellar Mission (VIM) began on Jan, 1, 1990. The goal was to extend exploration to the outer limits of the Sun’s sphere of influence and beyond. On Feb. 17, 1998, Voyager 1 became the most distant human-made object in existence when — at a distance of 69.4 AU from the Sun — it “overtook” Pioneer 10. On Dec. 16, 2004, Voyager 1 reached the termination shock and entered the heliosheath . On Aug. 25, 2012, the spacecraft became the first to exit the heliosphere and begin measuring the interstellar environment. Voyager 1 continues to communicate with NASA’s Deep Space Network and send data back from four still-functioning instruments — the cosmic ray telescope, the low-energy charged particles experiment, the magnetometer, and the plasma waves experiment. Engineers secure the cover over the Voyager 1 Golden Record in this archival image from 1977. NASA/JPL-Caltech Each of the Voyagers contain a message to potential extraterrestrials in the form of a 30-centimeter diameter gold-plated copper disc. Like the plaques on Pioneers 10 and 11, the Voyager Golden Record has inscribed symbols that show the location of Earth relative to several pulsars. The record includes instructions to play it similar to a vinyl record player. Audio on the disc includes greetings in 55 languages, 35 sounds from life on Earth (such as whale songs, laughter, etc.), 90 minutes of music including everything from Mozart and Bach to Chuck Berry and Blind Willie Johnson. It also includes 115 images of life on Earth and recorded greetings from then U.S. President Jimmy Carter and then-UN Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim. As of Aug. 21, 2024, Voyager 1 was 164.7 AU from Earth — the farthest object created by humans — moving at a velocity of 38,026.79 mph (17.0 km/second) relative to the Sun. Latest News Blog 2 Min Read NASA Engineers Help Prolong Voyager 2’s Science Mission Blog 4 Min Read NASA Shuts Off Instrument on Voyager 1 to Keep Spacecraft Operating Blog 4 Min Read Vintage NASA: See Voyager’s 1990 ‘Solar System Family Portrait’ Debut Article 1 Min Read NASA’s Voyager Probe Speeds Through Space (Artist’s Concept) Learn More Beyond Earth: A Chronicle of Deep Space Exploration A comprehensive history of missions sent to explore beyond Earth. Keep Exploring Discover More Topics From NASA Jupiter Saturn Our Solar System Universe National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery. About NASA's Mission Join Us Home News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA NASA en Español Follow NASA More NASA Social Accounts NASA Newsletters Sitemap For Media Privacy Policy FOIA No FEAR Act Office of the IG Budget & Annual Reports Agency Financial Reports Contact NASA Accessibility Page Last Updated: Sep 28, 2026 Page Editor: Stephen Carney Responsible NASA Official for Science: Dana Bolles Δ Did you find what you were looking for? (Required) Yes No Partly What were you looking for? (Required) What were you hoping to accomplish by visiting our website? (Required) Submit × 